Galactic Empire
General information
Organization type
Fascist
dictatorship
Stratocracy
Reincarnated
Sith Empire
(in secret)
Founding document
Proclamation of the New Order
Constitution
Imperial Charter
Head of state
Galactic Emperor
(
19 BBY
–
4 ABY
)
Grand Vizier
(
5 ABY
, officially)
Counselor to the Empire
(5 ABY,
de facto
)
Head of government
Grand Vizier
Commander-in-chief
Commander-in-Chief
(informally)
Supreme commander of the Imperial fleet
Supreme Commander
Executive branch
Imperial Ruling Council
Legislative branch
Imperial Senate
(
19 BBY
–
1 BBY
,
disbanded
by
Emperor
Sheev Palpatine
)
Judicial branch
Judicial Department
(Early reign)
Department of Imperial Justice
Military branch
Imperial Military
Societal information
Capital
Imperial City
,
Coruscant
Official language
Galactic Basic Standard
Currency
Imperial credit
State religious body
New Order
(
political
religion)
Official holiday
Empire Day
Anthem
"
Glory of the Empire
"
Historical information
Formed from
Galactic Republic
Date established
19 BBY
Date fragmented
4 ABY
,
into the
Imperial Remnants
and numerous independent
star systems
and nations
Date reorganized
5 ABY
,
into a
rump state in the inner systems
and within the
New Republic
By
9 ABY
,
into the
neo-Imperial forces
Date dissolved
5 ABY
Date restored
21 ABY
, as the
First Order
(publicly formed in
29 ABY
)
35 ABY
,
as the
Final Order
Other information
Affiliation
Sith
(secretly)
"
Imperius Unitada ober Totallex
"
―
Atrisian Basic
motto and name of a
propaganda piece
, literally translating to "Empire united over all"
The
Galactic Empire
, also known as the
First Galactic Empire
, the
Imperial regime
,
Palpatine's regime
, or simply the
Empire
, and later as the
Old Empire
, was a
fascist
and imperialist
dictatorship
that
replaced
the
Galactic Republic
at the
end
of the
Clone Wars
. Though the Empire rose to power by promising to bring order to
the galaxy
, it oversaw a
period
of
military
rule and aggressive expansion. The subsequent
Imperial Era
would last only two
decades
, for it was eventually overthrown by the
Alliance to Restore the Republic
in the
Galactic Civil War
, but not before the sovereign
star systems
of the
galaxy
's
known regions
had been largely conquered by the Empire's forces.
The Empire traced its origins to a
Sith conspiracy
to destroy the
Jedi Order
and
regain
control over the galaxy. The Empire was secretly controlled by the
Sith
, for the
Galactic Emperor
was, in fact, the
Sith Lord
Darth Sidious
, whose reign was enforced by his
apprentice
,
Darth Vader
, whom he eventually elevated to the position of
supreme commander of the Imperial fleet
. Rising to power on a groundswell of populist support and capitalizing on
anti-Jedi
and
anti-droid sentiment
and
human
-
ethnocentrism
manufactured by the destructive Clone Wars,
Darth
Sidious appointed himself
Emperor
at the end of the conflict by promising security and stability to the war-torn Republic. Gaining the overwhelming approval of the
Galactic Senate
, Darth Sidious staged a coup by the
Jedi
and oversaw their subsequent
purge
from the galaxy, assisted by his
right-hand
, Darth Vader.
The Empire stood virtually unchallenged during its rise to power, with the backing of the
Imperial Senate
and the spreading of its massive technological military force across the galaxy and began a major expansion and encroaching into the unexplored regions. At first, the Galactic Empire was a constitutional monarchy in basic theory, however it
gradually
evolved
into a
stratocracy
as the power of the Imperial Senate waned. However,
numerous insurgent cells
sprang up against the Empire and gradually united to initiate a
growing rebellion
, winning its
first major victory
over
Mustafar
in
4 BBY
. These rebel groups eventually
formed
the Rebel Alliance in
2 BBY
, and achieved its first major victory with the
theft
of the
Death Star plans
on
Scarif
, which, in turn, led to the destruction of the
Death Star
at the
Battle of Yavin
. The following years saw initial Alliance successes until a
major Imperial victory
on
Hoth
in
3 ABY
, but the Empire suffered a devastating defeat
one year later
at the
Battle of Endor
. During the battle, Darth Sidious was slain at the hands of his former disciple, the redeemed Anakin Skywalker, who himself died shortly thereafter, marking the end of Sith rule and the deterioration of the Empire and the
resumption
of the Galactic Republic, the
New Republic
.
With the deaths of the Emperor and his top lieutenant, factionalism overcame the Empire as it fractured into breakaway fiefdoms led by splinter
Moffs
,
admirals
, and
generals
, many of whom ignored
Grand Vizier
Mas Amedda
's authority at the
capital
and became
warlords
as the Empire continued to fight the Republic. The
Imperial Navy
came to be publicly led by loyalist
Grand Admiral
Rae Sloane
, though she was a figurehead for
Fleet Admiral
Gallius Rax
. Ultimately, Rax seized control over the loyalist forces, removing Sloane from power and becoming Emperor-in-effect through his new position as
Counselor to the Empire
. Under Rax's command, the Empire made its final stand at the
Battle of Jakku
in
5 ABY
, ultimately losing and
capitulating
to the New Republic. With the cessation of the fighting, the
Galactic Concordance
was signed, vanquishing the Empire.
While the Empire was gone, its
replacement
of the New Republic faced continued resistance from several Imperial holdouts
in the years
after. Meanwhile the
First Order
, a
military
organization dedicated to rebuilding the Empire,
began
a clandestine armament program. They were unaware, however, that they had been manipulated by a new hidden
conspiracy
, for
secret
cultists
on the lost
world
of
Exegol
attended to the
spirit
of Darth Sidious, and constructed a
fleet
built to herald a new
Sith Empire
. The
cult
efforts
ultimately failed
, however, for they were
opposed
by the
Resistance
and Jedi Order, leading to an
end of the First Order
.
History
Early foundations
"
I have good news for you, my Lord. The war has begun.
"
"
Excellent. Everything is going as planned.
"
―Darth Tyranus and Darth Sidious
The Imperial ideals of the Galactic Empire could be dated back to the
Sith Empire
of the
Old Republic's
time period.
Following the
defeat of the Sith
during their
final war
with the
Jedi Order
,
for at least a thousand
years
, the dominant governing body of
the galaxy
was the unicameral, parliamentary, and
democratic
Galactic Republic, which was governed by the
Galactic Senate
and led by an elected
Supreme Chancellor
.
Sheev Palpatine was the public persona of Darth Sidious, who conspired to restore Sith rule across the galaxy.
In the
last decades
of its existence, the Republic Senate became embroiled in bureaucracy, rendering it woefully ineffectual as a governing body.
Darth Sidious
, the
Dark Lord of the Sith
known publicly as
Senator
Sheev Palpatine of
Naboo
, privately lamented the declining state of the Senate, noting that the Republic was "not what it once was."
Thirteen years
before the Republic's end as a democracy, Darth Sidious orchestrated the
Invasion of Naboo
by the
Trade Federation
in order to create a leadership crisis in the Senate. Sidious used the crisis to manipulate the then
Queen
of
the Naboo
,
Padmé Amidala
, into calling a
Vote of No Confidence
against sitting Supreme Chancellor
Finis Valorum
. The vote passed, and in the subsequent election, Sidious—in his public persona of Senator Palpatine of
Naboo
—secured the position of Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic for himself through a strong sympathy vote.
Ultimately, he would be the last individual to hold this office.
In the
decade
that followed, Sidious secretly manipulated galactic events to the extent that war became inevitable. Besides persuading a dead
Jedi Master
,
Sifo-Dyas
, to create a
secret clone army
, he also tasked his
Sith apprentice
,
Darth Tyranus
, with exacerbating
political
tensions in the Republic and engineering a
Separatist Crisis
. These actions would culminate in the
outbreak
of the
Clone Wars
held on
Geonosis
, the last conflict of the Republic, while Sidious himself "reluctantly" accepted emergency powers from the Senate.
The Clone Wars, Sidious planned, would further make people in the galaxy grow bitter with the Republic
while he centralized his power to sweep away the Republic and Jedi.
Birth of the New Order
Drawn out conflict
"
I was not surprised that the Clone Wars paved the way for the Empire. The galaxy was in pieces, and everyone wanted to be done with the war. I don't think they realized the price they paid. Maybe they never will.
"
―
Jet Kordo
, in his journal
Since the onset of the Clone Wars
in
22 BBY
,
the Republic endeavored to strengthen its security and stability through the creation of new organizations such as the
Commission for the Protection of the Republic
(COMPOR), which utilized
propaganda
to increase public morale, promote patriotism, and foster anti-Separatist sentiment within the general population.
As the Republic became increasingly centralized, however, Chancellor Palpatine's powers continued to grow through additional assets ceded to the
Office of the Chancellor
, including the
galactic banking system
that was placed under his direct oversight.
This gave Sidious the finance he needed to build his empire.
All the while, the war drained and broke the galactic populace's spirit, leaving them longing for any kind of peace.
Through the Clone Wars, Sidious strengthened his authority as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine of the Galactic Republic.
The Chancellor remained a popular leader for the duration of the war, having managed to stay in office at the will of the Senate for longer than his term permitted. As he consolidated and centralized his own power, his influence expanded to an unprecedented level while the Republic shifted from a democratic government to an increasingly militarized and authoritarian regime on the grounds of security and stability. In addition to his authority as
Commander-in-Chief
of the
Republic Military
, the Chancellor exerted more control over the Senate, the
courts
,
and even the media, with
HoloNet News
becoming a state-run program in order to ensure that information would not be compromised by the
Confederacy of Independent Systems
.
Sidious's hold over the Republic further expanded with additional amendments to the
Galactic Constitution
while public support for the Jedi weakened as the war carried on,
paving the way for his ultimate ascension as
Emperor
of the galaxy.
As the war continued, the Republic's very nature was corrupted as the state became more warlike
and less democratic.
The government used the conflict as an excuse to annex once-independent planets
and cut social services in the name of funding the war, something which Senator Padmé Amidala recognized would fuel distaste for the Republic in its own citizenry. While she feared the Separatists would use that growing anger to win the war,
she failed to realize that it was Palpatine himself who had been engineering the war in such a way so as to make people tired of the Republic and eager for something new.
Duchess
Satine Kryze
of the neutral planet
Mandalore
was able to recognize the changing tides within the Republic.
However, much as the eventual Empire would make a policy out of slowly increasing its oppression piece by piece so as to not garner undue notice from its population,
those who lived under Republic governance day-by-day would find themselves numb to the changes and fail to notice the shifts, with even
Jedi Master
Obi-Wan Kenobi
not noticing how much things had changed.
Instead, those within the Republic focused on the outside threat of the Separatist Alliance, with any compromises the Senate noticed largely being justified in the name of the war effort
or security.
As Senator
Mon Mothma
would later put it, Palpatine had shown the galaxy "the stone in [his] hand," which meant the population failed to notice the "knife [he held] at [their] throat."
Proclaiming the Empire
"
In order to ensure the security and continuing stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first
Galactic Empire
! For a safe and secure society.
"
―Darth Sidious
The Jedi, having discovered Palpatine's secret identity, confronted the chancellor in his office on Coruscant.
As the war neared its end
in
19 BBY
,
the Jedi Order had grown skeptical about the Chancellor after his accumulation of emergency power. They began to suspect that a plot to destroy the
Jedi
was close to fruition. The
ruling council
started discussing forcibly removing Palpatine from office and temporarily overseeing the Senate in order to maintain political stability during the transition period. However, the Jedi learned of Palpatine's true identity as Dark Lord of the Sith, Darth Sidious. Following an attempt to arrest him, a
brief but vicious fight
ensued in which Sidious killed several Jedi and was himself injured and visibly disfigured. The intercession of
Jedi Knight
Anakin Skywalker
, who was a personal friend of Chancellor Palpatine and already disillusioned with both the Order and the war, ensured Sidious's victory. The prodigal Jedi was turned to the
dark side of the Force
, while Sidious had a pretext upon which to turn the Republic against the Jedi.
The purging of the Jedi Order commenced with Order 66, which the clone troopers were programmed to obey.
Darth Sidious immediately
purged
the Jedi Order, issuing to the
clone
army
Order 66
: to exterminate all Jedi. With this command programmed into the clones since their births on
Kamino
,
the
clone troopers
immediately turned on their Jedi commanders and exterminated the vast majority of the Jedi Order in an instant. Meanwhile, Anakin Skywalker—rechristened as Sidious's new
Sith
apprentice
Darth
Vader—
attacked
the
Jedi Temple
and wiped out what remained of the Order.
Palpatine would go onto claim it was the Jedi who had been behind the war and that they were attempting to subvert the Republic from within,
with the Empire's narrative holding the Jedi as being the puppet masters of the Separatist Alliance
—something supported by the public knowledge that Dooku had once been a Jedi
—in a long-plotted coup.
With his speech, he pinned recent galactic crises squarely on the Jedi Order.
Subsequent Imperial narratives would separate the CIS and Jedi Order, however.
Despite their Order being wiped out, certain Jedi survived the initial purge. Many of them went into hiding after
Grand Master
Yoda
and Master
Obi-Wan Kenobi
fought their way into the Temple and transmitted a holographic message warning the other Jedi about the Republic trap waiting for them there, right before the two Masters failed to destroy the Sith and headed into exile themselves.
Some of them, however, were initially hunted down and either killed, taken prisoner or turned to the dark side as part of an agency of
dark side adepts
known as the
Inquisitorius
.
Over the Imperial Era, the Empire would also come to change the story of the Jedi Order's supposed betrayal to, little by little, erase the Jedi from history. Later Imperial histories would disregard the story of a Jedi coup, instead painting the picture of an Order that had greatly dwindled in number and was mostly forgotten by the Clone Wars.
In the aftermath of the Clone Wars, the First Galactic Empire was born with Sidious' ascension as Emperor of the galaxy.
Shortly afterwards, Sidious turned his eyes to the Confederacy of Independent Systems and dispatched Darth Vader to
wipe out
Nute Gunray
and the rest of the
Separatist government leaders
on
Mustafar
, following which Imperial financier
Arsin Crassus
plundered the Trade Federation's accounts to fund the new Imperial government.
Now able to demonstrate threats to the Republic from both within and without, a visibly injured and scarred Sidious addressed the Galactic Senate to announce the reforms which had been his plan since the beginning. To the thunderous applause of the Senators, Sidious—known publicly as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine—announced that in order to preserve security and continued stability, the Republic would be reorganized into
the First Galactic Empire
and proclaimed himself as Galactic Emperor.
Eager for an end to the war and its suffering, the galaxy accepted the Empire.
Imperialization
Re-ordering the Republic
"
The Emperor, the governors, the minds we've brought together have grand plans for the galaxy—not just for the next year, or the next five years, but for the next
century
. We are the architects of the universe our grandchildren will live in, and it will be one where there is no conflict, no dissent, and no visionaries who would undo the work of their betters. Today we will maintain order through military might, but in the future every child will learn a superior history, be raised in a superior family. And the concept of defiance will be as antiquated as the spear. You ask me if we would start a war to maintain our grip on power. This is my answer: We already did. While you were obsessed with the Separatist conflict, we were doing battle on another front, capturing the love of the people of this galaxy. The Emperor won. Now we are securing our victory and reaping the spoils, while you seem to believe the fighting never began, let alone ended.
"
―Grand Vizier Mas Amedda, to Senator Mon Mothma
The Jedi became vilified as the Old Republic faded into history, supplanted by the New Order of Emperor Palpatine.
Existing government bodies were renamed to reflect the change in authority as civil and military superstructure of the Old Republic were overhauled immediately under the personal direction of the Emperor. With vast portions of the galaxy still unconquered, the Grand Army of the Republic became the
Imperial Army
,
while the
Republic Navy
became the
Imperial Navy
and the Galactic Senate was rechristened the
Imperial Senate
.
The renowned
Senate Plaza
, with its name reminding residents of the Old Republic, was promptly changed to the Imperial Plaza.
Ultimately, the mechanisms created for the Republic during the war were twisted to fit Sidious' use, with even the systems built with help from the Jedi benefiting the new Emperor.
All the while, the Emperor and his followers began formulating their
century plan
for the galaxy and how it would change under Imperial rule.
In addition, the former roundel of the Republic was replaced with the new
Imperial crest
, adorned on almost everything having to do with Sidious' Empire.
With every day that passed, Sidious' hold over the galaxy grew tighter.
For the next decade and a half, Imperial rule—bolstered by the military created to fight in the Clone Wars—dominated the galaxy and was largely unchallenged. The Empire soon began to upgrade its military hardware, replacing V-wing and
ARC-170
fighters with newer
TIE models
five years after the Clone Wars, but Republic-era military equipment continued to be used for a while on distant outposts and locations such as
Galidraan Station
.
The Republic's
Phase II clone trooper armor
would begin a phase out and be replaced by superior
stormtrooper armor
, whose development had been headed by the
Imperial Department of Military Research
.
In the meantime, the Empire quietly supported the activity of the
4040s
activist group, whose members functioned as something of a paramilitary in due time.
All the while, the average peoples of the Empire carried on, thinking that their lives would continue happily.
On the whole, the population was relieved to see an end to the war and the fear it instilled in their lives.
While certain anti-Imperial actions could be punished, with word spreading that some traitors were sent to the
spice mines of Kessel
,
the administration—in that period of early establishment, where its foundations were shaky—only cracked down on major threats to its existence. That created a sense of false security in the population,
whose civil liberties were curtailed over the prolonged existence of the Empire, instead of in one great stroke.
Palpatine relied on
populist
messaging that appealed to the average citizen,
but the Empire was, in truth, a state designed for the wealthy,
who would enjoy comfort and the state's kindness
at the expense of those average workers and populations.
Mothma and Organa championed the
Imperial Rebirth Act
to try and reclaim power for the Senate that had been claimed by Palpatine, only for Palpatine to claim that, as Emperor, he had the ability to veto portions of the bill. While Mothma disagreed with the claim, she was not yet ready to start a war against the Emperor, who had the love of the galaxy's population and the power to back it up, so found herself forced to accept the defeat. Nonetheless, faced with the revelation that senatorial action would not be enough to curtail Palpatine, Mothma and Organa began a covert partnership with the rebel leader
Saw Gerrera
of the
Partisans
; in this alliance, Gerrera would stand as the military heart and provide the beginnings of a rebel army, Mothma would build coalitions to oppose Palpatine as their movement's political heart, and Organa would stand as its ideological heart, bringing together thinkers and reformers who could present a new way forward.
Continuing clean-up
"
They want the Empire to collapse the same way some hoped the Republic would, only this time our enemies aren't rebelling in protest of Senate representation, trade routes, or taxes. They're intent on sowing chaos, on bringing everything down. They have no agenda—political, religious, or any other—beyond a desire to end civilization as we know it.
"
―
Orson Callan Krennic
Happy for the peace and the end to the fighting the rise of the Empire brought
after the Clone Wars had killed billions,
the new government was welcomed by people
all throughout a galaxy
that was tired of the bloodshed; on the planet
Pantora
, citizens cheered as clone stormtroopers marched past them near a
Imperial Informational Station
, where a message played announcing personal
chain codes
and new
currency
.
The battle droids that fought for the Confederacy of Independent Systems were decommissioned and destroyed.
After the
Separatist Droid Army
was promptly shut down, its
navy
was dismantled at locations across the galaxy such as the
Bilbringi shipyards
. However, various droid models and Separatist technology escaped Imperial appropriation and worked their way onto the black market, with many modules taken from Separatist frigates and destroyers, including pieces from
Admiral
Trench
's warship, the
Invincible
. Despite Separatist-era technology continuing to be used and appearing in locations such as the
Corporate Sector
, the Empire continued to root out remaining
holdouts
of the Confederacy four years after the Clone Wars, while criminal organizations composed of repurposed
battle droids
such as the
Droid Gotra
operated in Coruscant's underground.
While the Empire at times came into conflict with parts of the criminal underworld,
the Empire allied itself with major galactic criminal factions, including
Crimson Dawn
and the
Hutt Clan
. The
Hutts
enjoyed a special relationship with the Empire that remained in place for decades. Other criminal factions, like
Papa Toren's group
,
the
Pyke Syndicate
, the Droid Gotra, the
Black Sun
, the
Zerek Besh
, all desired to take the Hutt Clan's place as the Empire's formal partner in underworld affairs.
Hunt for the Jedi
"
The Inquisitorius. A project of mine, long planned. Slaves to the light side once, now awake. Hunters, one and all.
"
"
What do they hunt?
"
"
Why, Jedi, of course.
"
―Darth Sidious and Darth Vader
The remaining Jedi were hunted by the Sith Lord Darth Vader and his Inquisitors.
Any Jedi survivors of Sidious' purge were systematically hunted down and killed either by Darth Vader
or any of the Emperor's Inquisitors in the years that followed the rise of the New Order. When
Zubain Ankonori
and his nest of fellow Jedi were all found within the
Jedi shrine
on
Anoat
, they were forced to separate and flee, only to be tracked and killed by an Inquisitor one by one.
In order to draw out any of these Jedi and the children capable of touching
the Force
, the Empire charged the Inquisitorius with not only tracking the Order 66 survivors down, but also preventing the Force-sensitive youth of the galaxy from becoming Jedi.
The Empire also offered rewards for those who turned over surviving Jedi to Imperial authorities, dead or alive.
Minor resistance
"
Why should we trust you?
"
"
Because I'm on your side. What the Empire is doing is wrong. You have to get out of here.
"
―
Gobi Glie
and
Howzer
Imperial rule fostered resentment on occupied worlds, including the Twi'lek homeworld of Ryloth.
As pirates, smugglers, and ex-Separatists were routinely imprisoned and destroyed, the Empire faced little serious resistance to its rule. A rare exception revolved around the Outer Rim world of
Ryloth
, where Moff
Delian Mors
and
Colonel
Belkor Dray
were fighting an insurgency known as the
Free Ryloth Movement
, led by former
Twi'lek Resistance
leader
Cham Syndulla
, who established hidden bases across Ryloth and executed raids against the Empire, including those on its lucrative
spice
and slave trade in the sector. Composed of freedom fighters who fought with the Galactic Republic and Jedi Master
Mace Windu
during the Clone Wars to free their homeworld from Separatist occupation by
Emir
Wat Tambor
, the newly formed Free Ryloth movement would continue its struggle for independence against the Galactic Empire for decades.
Seeking to make examples of worlds who continued to harbor secessionist tendencies,
Moff
Wilhuff Tarkin
was assigned to make an example of
Antar 4
, a populous moon that had been a part of the Separatist Alliance and involved in a scheme involving
Republic Intelligence
to train locals into well-armed resistance groups. While COMPNOR initially stifled information regarding the killings, word soon leaked about the operation through inquisitive reporters such as
Anora Fair
and
Hask Taff
, while the event was soon penned as the
Antar Atrocity
, capturing the attention of many Coruscanti and other citizens from the Core Worlds.
Age of the Empire
Continued expansion
"
There used to be hundreds of settlements up here. Forty thousand Aldhanis all across the highlands. They were here for centuries, but it only took the Empire a decade to clear them out.
"
"
Killed them?
"
"
No. Drove them south. There's an Enterprize Zone in the Lowlands. Factories, new towns, Imperial housing. Aldhani has the unfortunate quality of being close to nothing and not far away from everything. It's the perfect hub for distribution. If one were trying to take over the galaxy.
"
―Vel Sartha and Cassian Andor
Imperial forces arrive on the planet Ferrix as a show of force.
In 19 BBY,
Imperial forces arrived on
the planet
Ferrix
in the
Free Trade sector
to bring it under the Empire's control. On
Rix Road
,
a
regiment
of clone troopers under an
Imperial officer
marched pass the gathered masses of civilians as a show of Imperial authority, although local citizen
Clem Andor
assured his adoptive son
Cassian Jeron Andor
that the Empire would pull out soon enough. To Clem, resisting the Empire was not their fight. However, a small group of protesters emerged from the crowd and began to throw rocks at the soldiers in the name of the Republic and Ferrix
in what became known as the
Rix Road protest
.
Believing they would only make things worse for themselves, Clem quickly stepped in to stop the protest, only for the officer to call his troopers to a halt at that moment. Pointing their blasters at the protesters and Clem, who was assumed to be part of the demonstration, the protest was shut down.
Clem was publicly hung on Rix Road
for his supposed treason.
Afterward, Cassian attacked four clone troopers stationed near the gallows in anger.
At some point, Andor spent time with anti-Imperial anarchist groups.
Ultimately, Cassian would be arrested on charges of attacking an Imperial soldier, insurrection, and destroying Imperial property.
After spending time in prison, the sixteen year old Andor was sent to
the planet
Mimban
, which had been an ally to the Republic during the Clone Wars but possessed vital resources,
as a cook for the Imperial Army. After six months on Mimban, Andor escaped by deserting the military. He later claimed he had seen active combat. Upon escaping, Andor realized the Empire had set him and his other conscripts against people who should have been their allies. Although Andor's resolve to fight the Empire was damaged,
the people of Mimban, the
Mimbanese
, resisted the Empire's encroachment on their world as the Imperial Era carried on.
Andor ultimately returned home to Ferrix, which largely remained out of direct Imperial control and instead was governed by the
Preox-Morlana
corporate polity on behalf of the central Imperial regime. Despite his hate for the Empire, Andor's spirit was crushed,
and he attempted to eke out a life for himself, his mother
Maarva
, and their droid
B2EMO
.
The Imperial occupation of Aldhani began in 18 BBY and resulted in the planet becoming a waypoint for Imperial materiel.
At some point during its reign, the Empire undertook an expansion effort known simply as the
Imperial expansion
. It was during this time that they constructed a
military installation
on the volcanic world of
Nevarro
.
In 18 BBY,
the Empire arrived on the planet
Aldhani
due to its tactically useful place in space, liberating the
Alkenzi Air Base
and creating a
dam
over the sacred
Nasma Klain
river that served as a waypoint for weaponry and other supplies, including the quarterly payroll for the overall sector.
Beginning an occupation, the Empire displaced the local population
of
Dhanis
over the course of the next ten years. Forcing the Dhani to the southern
Lowlands
, the Empire established an
Enterprise Zone
of new Imperial housing and offered work in
factories
.
To discourage Dhanis from traveling to the sacred
Valley of Caves
, the location of the Aldhani dam, to view the revered celestial event known as the "
Eye of Aldhani
" that happened every three years, the Galactic Empire established an Imperial viewing festival in the
Enterprise zone
in
15 BBY
.
Designing the ultimate weapon
"
You look at the history of any sentient species and what do you find but tableaux of violence and slaughter. It's finger painted on the ceilings of caves and engraved into the walls of temples. Dig a hole deep enough on any world and you'll find the skulls and bones of adults and children fractured by crude weapons. All of us were fighting long before we were farming and raising livestock…Violence is hardwired into most of us and there's no eliminating the impulse—not with an army of stormtroopers or a fleet of Star Destroyers. That's why we've embarked on a path to a different solution. We have a chance to forge a peace that will endure longer than the Republic was in existence.
"
―Orson Callan Krennic
The Emperor performed an inspection of Krennic's work on the Death Star
Having inherited the
Republic Special Weapons Group
, a top secret group headed by
Professor
Sahali
tasked with
top secret project
and ordered by Palpatine to construct the
deadly battle station
from it's predecessor state, the Galactic Empire reformed the Weapons Group into the
Imperial Military Department of Advanced Weapons Research
in which the Ultimate Weapon project was assigned and split into several smaller projects, with
Project Celestial Power
, a subproject tasked with the development of a
superweapon
for the battle station, being publicly presented as an initiative to fulfill Emperor Palpatine's
dream
of sustainable energy independence
to transform the Imperial economy and solidify Imperial authority.
Lieutenant Commander
Orson Callan Krennic
, an
Imperial officer
who had been involved with the failed attempt at the Battle Station's construction, and had held an administrative post at the
Institute of Applied Science
on Coruscant screening scientists for expertise on energy manipulation, materials science, and theoretical physics, was placed in charge of the program.
Around this time the the outer rings were completed, with the Emperor performing an inspection shortly after, during which Krennic had the focusing array for what would eventually be the laser dish installed.
Galen Erso was tricked unknowingly into helping to develop the Death Star's superlaser
In charge of the program, Krennic had the
B'ankora
relocated from the
B'ankor Refuge
on Coruscant to allow the construction of a new
research complex
at the site, and seeing potential for the battle station's weapon in the
crystallographer
Galen Walton Erso
Kyber crystal
research, offered the crystallographer a spot in the project, convincing him that the project was tasked with
bringing
sustainable energy to worlds ravaged by the clone wars, which Galen accepted. As Galen made progress on his research on Kyber crystals, Krennic began attempting to weaponize Galen's research at secret facilities on worlds such as
Hypori
and
Malpaz
, all while Galen and his
family
grew suspicious of Galen's work.
Despite Project Celestial Power being hit with a major accident when a
facility
on Malpaz
exploded
during a weaponization attempt and destroying the planet's
capital city
, Krennic eventually succeeded in weaponizing Galen's research with the successful test of prototype duel-laser weapon into a set of
Black holes
known as the
Hero Twins
. Yet despite the successful test, the project was once again set back when the team tasked with designing the full superlaser questioned their work and realized who's research was being used, forcing Krennic to "relocate" them. Not long after, Galen discovered the Imperial coverup and massacre, which all but confirmed something was wrong. With this information, Galen decided to run away with his family to
Lah'mu
, making Project Celestial Power stall until Krennic could locate the crystallographer. Grand Moff Tarkin used the opportunity to give himself an overseeing position of the Ultimate Weapon Project, often stealing credit for Krennic's work and causing a bitter rivalry between him and Krennic.
Spread of the Empire
"
For the first time in one thousand generations our sector governors will not be working solely to enrich Coruscant and the Core Worlds, but to advance the quality of life in the star systems that make up each sector-keeping the spaceways safe, maintaining open and accessible communications, assuring that tax revenues are properly levied and allocated to improving the infrastructure. The Senate will likewise be made up of beings devoted not to their own enrichment, but to the enrichment of the worlds they represent.
"
―An excerpt from the Tarkin Doctrine
"
Glory of the Empire
" was played during the yearly
Empire Day
celebrations across Imperial space.
As the Galactic Empire grew, Sidious moved closer to his ultimate plan of ruling the entire galaxy and unlocking the secrets of the
Sith Masters
who had come before him. With the near extermination of the Jedi Order and the Empire swelling in size and strength, the Emperor ultimately planned to possess the powers of the dark side to reshape reality itself into something of his own creation, and an omnipotent Empire would allow all the galaxy's inhabitants to be held in his dark embrace. As Emperor, however, he largely disappeared from public life,
leaving his public addresses to become more and more rare.
While, in public, the Imperial system of sector governance was designed to improve and uplift life across the whole of the galaxy,
the truth of the Empire and its New Order was that it enforced a form of supposed "natural hierarchy," which uplifted life in the Core Worlds at the expense of those who lived further out across the stars. Planets at the edge of the galaxy suffered under Imperial rule while their resources and wealth were extracted and shipped towards the Core, particularly Coruscant, which prospered under Imperial rule. Imperial leadership
and their wealthy contemporaries
enjoyed luxurious lifestyles.
As most planets were ecologically devastated over the Imperial Era, rampant industrialization and mass-production eroded local culture and ecological health. People saw their children drafted into Imperial service, while corrupt
governors
and
magistrates
often exploited local populations on worlds such as
Jelucan
,
Devaron
and
Tangenine
.
In
18 BBY
,
the Empire
conquered
and occupied
the planet
Yar Togna
,
leading to much of its population fleeing
as refugees
in a mass exodus.
At some point, the
Mid Rim uprisings
were launched by
monarchies
that refused to obey Palpatine's will. The revolts ended up as a series of chaotic conflicts that ended in Imperial victory: through the actions of
Imperial Starfighter Pilots
, the monarchies were forced to submit to the Emperor.
Imperial agents and soldiers were tasked with enforcing the Emperor's reign throughout the galaxy.
Only a year after its founding, the Empire had already begun to enforce itself in the Outer Rim. Worlds that did not fall to the Empire's quick expansion, which installed an oppressive Imperial presence instead of simple bases, became homes to crime lords. In its effort to establish itself in the Outer Rim, in addition to using fear, the Empire withheld food to make populations endure hunger.
While the Empire turned a blind eye to various abuses, it still maintained a policy of zero corruption and maintained its high standards of conduct, resulting in numerous
Imperial Security Bureau
(ISB) officials actively hunting down corrupt and negligent officials, even resulting in investigations by Lord Vader himself. Despite this, many citizens were content with the geopolitical situation in the galaxy, believing that strict measures were necessary to maintain order and stability after the destructive Clone Wars. Many also believed that the Empire, while not the best, was better than anarchy and chaos.
Ahsoka Tano inspired the people of Raada to fight for freedom from the Empire.
Despite its seemingly endless expansion, such as on
Raada
, where Imperial
forces
arrived to harvest
food
, which destroyed the quality of the moon's soil and led to a growing oppression. This angered the people of Raada to the point where they staged an
uprising
after
weeks
of planning, with the help of ex-
Padawan
Ahsoka Tano
and the forces of Imperial Senator
Bail Organa
in secret.
A major turning point against the Empire's advance into the Outer Rim occurred in
11 BBY
, with Imperial forces commanded by Captain
Rae Sloane
engaging in a small skirmish in the vital Inner Rim system of
Gorse
.
This event saw the meeting of later rebel
Hera Syndulla
and Jedi survivor
Kanan Jarrus
, who were confronting efficiency expert
Count
Denetrius Vidian
and his aggressive methods of extracting
thorilide
—a vital component in the construction of turbolaser batteries and thus essential for the expansion of the Imperial fleet. The
Gorse Conflict
ultimately ended with the transferring of local thorilide mining operations to Imperial-aligned
Baron
Lero Danthe
, while Syndulla and Jarrus departed on the heavily modified
VCX-100 light freighter
Ghost
, and would become essential to the eventual formation of the
Rebel Alliance
.
Meanwhile, more and more worlds within the Empire began to realize its true intentions: After various
massacres
on
Kashyyyk
and increasingly brutal tactics, such as the Empire committing genocide on the
Lasat
homeworld of
Lasan
, a growing number of citizens of the galaxy began to rebel against Imperial dominion. At least nine years after the proclamation of the
New Order
, the
Corellian Resistance
fought
the Empire from its headquarters on the planet
Corellia
.
The Empire would also end the independence of many galactic, sector and planetary governments in its early conquests.
Theft of the
Carrion Spike
"
You hear so many rumors. People are here one day, gone the next. And no one has laid eyes on the Emperor in months. Amedda, Dangor, and the rest of the Ruling Council have taken to dispatching processions of Imperial skylimos to maintain an illusion that the Emperor still moves about in public. You know they commissioned an enormous statue of the Emperor for the Senate—I mean, Imperial Plaza? So far, the thing looks more terrifying than majestic.
"
"
Isn't that the idea, Nils?
"
―Admiral Nils Tenant and Moff Wilhuff Tarkin discuss the Imperialization of Coruscant
The
Carrion Spike
was the personal stealth corvette of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin.
In
14 BBY
,
after Palpatine had spent months on end out of the public eye, members of the Ruling Council, including Mas Amedda and Ars Dangor, arranged for skylimos to move about
Imperial City
, creating the illusion of Palpatine moving amongst the populous. Furthermore, the ongoing
Imperialization
of the galaxy and even Coruscant at that time resulted in, as
Admiral
Nils Tenant
observing, personnel being "here on day, gone the next." Around the time, an enormous statue of the Emperor—which was regarded by Tenant as more terrifying than beautiful—was erected in Imperial Plaza, with Tarkin arguing to Tenant that it was supposed to be scary, not majestic.
Meanwhile, various survivors of the Antar Atrocity and other malcontents joined together under the leadership of the former Captain Berch Teller, who organized them into a
rebel cell
intent on stalling the development of the Emperor's newest weapon under construction at Geonosis. After stealing the
Carrion Spike
, an advanced starship based on a
prototype stealth corvette
used during the
Battle of Christophsis
during the Clone Wars, the rebels wreaked havoc across numerous star systems including
Lucazec
,
Galidraan
III and
Nouane
, all while transmitting holovids of their attacks on Imperial
HoloNet
frequencies, increasing anti-Imperial propaganda across thousands of
Mid
and Outer Rim star systems before the Empire was able to shut down the communications grid.
After lengthy fleet redeployments and the discovery of a mole within the Imperial ranks, Tarkin, aboard the
Imperial
-class Star Destroyer
Executrix
, disabled the rebel warship and captured the dissidents after a brief battle and timely arrival of Star Destroyers
Compliant
and
Enforcer
. To reward Tarkin's skill, the Emperor promoted him to the newly created rank of
Grand Moff
and gave him command of the
Executrix
as well as oversight of the Outer Rim Territories, all while the recent attacks on Imperial facilities were made to look like an elaborate plot to root out rebel cells. The Empire had effectively dealt with a potentially disastrous situation, rooted out a traitor and kept details regarding the development of its superweapon at Geonosis a mere rumor.
The Emperor's long-term plan was to allow what he called the "skeleton of the Republic" to remain in place until the Death Star was completed; this included maintaining the Senate to make the systems believe that they still had a part to play in the government. However, upon the superweapon's completion, the Emperor planned to dissolve the Senate and grant its legislative and administrative powers to the military-industrial complex. The Death Star would also provide order to the galaxy, as part of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin's
doctrine of terror
, by making its inhabitants too afraid to defy an Imperial command and stand against the Empire.
Outer Rim expansion
"
Good news has come to the citizens of Lothal. The Outer Rim planet has been granted the coveted opportunity to participate in the new Imperial Registration Program.
"
―
Alton Kastle
, on the HoloNet News
Sullust was an example of the Empire's industrial development.
Around fourteen years into Sidious' rule as Emperor, the Empire had continued its expansion into the Outer Rim. Worlds like Jelucan saw occupation and development, leading to rampant pollution and industrialization to support the Imperial war machine.
One such world that was developed was
Lothal
, which joined the
Imperial Registration Program
seeking protection and economic opportunities whereby local citizens would find work in the local
Sienar Fleet Systems
facilities.
Ostensibly this was to grow the local economy, but was in fact secretly part of a much larger five-year plan involving numerous Outer Rim worlds that was overseen by the
Imperial Outer Rim High Command
, a subdivision of
Imperial High Command
which was in charge of the
Outer Rim Territories
.
But the Empire did not fully control the Outer Rim and often utilized its worlds instead as testing grounds for new biological weapons and as a source of cheap labor.
Lothal's industrial importance soon came to the fore for the Empire as the Emperor planned to further expand Imperial dominion over the Outer Rim Territories and beyond. In order to maximize the worth of newly occupied systems, worlds such as Lothal soon bore witness to Imperial authorities relocating
farmers
away from their farmlands to mine for Imperial purposes, leading to the development of re-settlement camps such as
Tangletown
and
Lothal re-settlement camp 43
, known by the residents as "Tarkintown" after the Governor of the Outer Rim.
The Empire also limited the HoloNet across the Outer Rim, leading many dissatisfied systems to view the embargo as a part of the conquest of the Outer Systems.
This aggressive dislocation of persons and high tax rate eventually led to the development of a small and localized, albeit serious upheaval against the Galactic Empire on Lothal.
Project Stardust resumes
Capturing Galen Erso
"
The work has stalled. I need you to come back.
"
―Director Orson Callan Krennic
Krennic and his guard travelled to the Erso homestead on Lah'mu to capture Galen
After landing a a lofty appointment in
Imperial Intelligence
,
Director
Krennic
tracked down
Galen Erso
to the remote planet
Lah'mu
in
13 BBY
and personally travelled to the planet
to recapture the
crystallographer
for
Project Celestial Power
. Arriving at the planet, Krennic's
Delta
-class T-3c shuttle
ST-149
flew over the
Erso homestead
, alerting the Ersos to the Imperial's arrival, before landing in a field near the homestead. Upon landing, Krennic and six members of his
guard
of
death troopers
disembarked the shuttle and began traveling towards the homestead, while Galen, in an attempt to buy time for his wife
Lyra
and his daughter
Jyn
to escape, left the homestead and began to travel towards Krennic.
Krennic confronted his old friend Galen on a field outside the latter's homestead
Eventually, Krennic and Galen met each other in a field, where Krennic proceeded to tell Galen that he was hard to find before mocking Galen's choice of farming given his skill. In response, Galen stated that it was a peaceful life, prompting Krennic to point out how lonely it must be, allowing Galen the opportunity to lie that Lyra had
died
. Upon hearing of Lyra's supposed death, Krennic approached Galen and give his condolences, before then turning and ordering the death troopers of his guard to search Galen's homestead. As a result, four of the death troopers marched onwards to the house, where they carried out the order before setting the homestead on
fire
while two troopers remained to guard the director. Galen then asked Krennic why he was there, to which he responded that the work had stalled, and as such he needed him to return to the project, to which Galen stated he would not do so. In response, Krennic stated that they were on the verge of greatness and close providing peace and security to
the galaxy
, to which Galen told Krennic that he was confusing peace with terror. Krennic responded that they had to start somewhere, before Galen then stated that he'd be of no help, claiming that his mind was not what it once was and that he had trouble remembering even simple things. However, Krennic called Galen's bluff, telling him that while he was an inspired scientist, he was a terrible liar, though he personally still admired the effort.
Krennic's death trooper guard held a standoff with Lyra
However, as he continued speaking, Lyra arrived to the confrontation, causing Krennic sarcastically mock Galen's lie about her death as the two death troopers guarding him approached Lyra. Galen then began to walk towards Lyra, causing one death trooper to point their blaster at Galen, before Krennic then called out to everyone to stop. However, Lyra then revealed her blaster from a blanket she was carrying and aimed it at Krennic, causing Krennic to state that she was being troublesome as ever. In response, Lyra told Krennic that he would not be taking Galen, to which Krennic that of course he would not, as he planned on taking everybody in the family including Jyn, and they would all live in comfort. Following Krennic statement, Lyra added that they would be living as hostages, before Krennic the claimed they would instead be living as heroes of the Empire. Following this, Galen told Lyra to drop her weapon while Krennic told her to think very carefully though after a moment of consideration Lyra simply stated to Krennic that he would never win. As a result, Krennic quickly gave the death troopers the order to shoot and kill Lyra, which they quickly carried out, though not before she managed to land a shot on Krennic's left shoulder, causing the
commander
to grab his arm in pain.
Krennic’s death troopers attempted to locate Galen’s daughter Jyn, but were ultimately unsuccessful
As Galen rushed over to his dying wife, Krennic, still covering his wound, ordered his death trooper squad to find Jyn. In the ensuing search, one death trooper found and picked up Jyn's
doll
"
Stormie
" onutside the homestead, but failed to locate Jyn upon scanning the surrounding area. Soon after, two death troopers entered a nearby cave, which unbeknownst to them, was the location of the bunker Jyn was hiding in. As Jyn looked on through a small opening in the bunker's hidden entrance, the two death troopers briefly scanned the cave with the flashlights on their blasters, but ultimately left after failing to locate Jyn in the cave. Despite their failure to locate Jyn,
Galen was brought aboard a
Star Destroyer
and returned to Imperial custody.
Progression
"
I knew if I had refused to work, if I took my own life, it would only be a matter of time before Krennic realized he no longer needed me to complete the project. So I did the one thing nobody expected: I lied; I learned to lie. I played the part of a beaten man resigned to the sanctuary of his work. I made myself indispensable and all the while I laid the groundwork of my revenge.
"
―Galen Erso
Pressed into Imperial service under the Tarkin Initiative, Galen Erso returned to his kyber crystal research under Project Celestial Power
Once again in Imperial custody, Galen was forced to return to his
kyber crystal
research on Project Celestial Power,
now under the secret Imperial think tank known as the
Tarkin Initiative
.
Realizing the
DS-1 Orbital Battle Station
would be completed no matter if he returned to the project, Galen made himself indispensable to
Project Stardust
and took over leadership of the
Kyber crystal research team
on
Eadu
.
Erso's extraordinary intellect managed to revitalize the team's progress,
allowing the team to complete the design for the
Death Star
's superlaser after several years under his leadership.
Secretly however, Erso planted a flaw in the Death Star's reactor that caused the superweapon to be destroyed when a single shot hit the reactor.
The Empire released a toxic insecticide on Geonosis, massacring the planet's population of around 100 billion Geonosians
As progress began on the Death Star once again, the rebel
Partisan
Saw Gerrera
came close to discovering the battle station, the Empire to move the station and its
construction
from
Geonosis
to
Scarif
on
Grand Moff
Wilhuff Tarkin
's order
around
9 BBY
.
As a safety measure to keep the battle station's construction a secret, Tarkin further ordered
the
Imperial Weapons division
to
sterilize
Geonosis, which was promptly carried out with
gas canisters
of toxic
insecticide
.
The ensuing genocide wiped out all but
one
of the
planet
's approximately one hundred billion
geonosians
, the largest genocide committed by the Galactic Empire during its
reign
.
Construction on the Death Star continued in orbit over Scarif
As construction resumed on the battle station in
orbit
over Scarif,
prisoners at an
Imperial factory facility
part of the
Narkina 5 Imperial Prison Complex
were assigned to assemble
EP-N5 fasteners
,
which after being brought to Scarif on
Eta
-class supply barges
alongside other construction cargo,
were used by
Imperial construction droids
in the assembly of the Death Star's
Mk I Superlaser
.
During this time, Director Krennic was a guest to several
senate
committees involving Imperial Senator Mon Mothma, where he was forced to testify before the committees while on a witness stand.
Hunting Kenobi
Trouble on Tatooine
Multiple inquisitors travelled to Tatooine in search of the former jedi Nari
In
9 BBY
,
the Grand Inquisitor
, the
Fifth Brother
, and the
Third Sister
travelled to
Tatooine
in
search
of a
Jedi
in hiding by the name of
Nari
, despite the Empire having no authority on the
planet
. Arriving in the
city
Anchorhead
, the Third Sister interrogated and threatened several townspeople including
Owen Lars
regarding the Jedi's location, until the Fifth Brother talked her out of it.
Later, the
inquisitors
visited a
Saloon
in
Mos Eisley
and questioned the owner about the Jedi. During interrogation, the Third Sister threw a
knife
toward the owner's head, before Nari, sitting at a table across the saloon, stopped the knife in its tracks by using
the Force
, revealing himself. In response, the Third Sister ignited her lightsaber and the
Grand Inquisitor
ordered an interrogation. However, Nari then stated the inquisitors were wasting their time, causing the Third Sister to attempt to strike Nari only to be stopped by the Grand Inquisitor by way of the Force, allowing Nari to escape in the heat of the moment. Despite Nari's temporary escape, the inquisitors eventually tracked Nari down to Anchorhead and promptly killed him before hanging the dead Jedi's body from a gate for all to see.
Dueling on Daiyu
Around the same time, the Third Sister secretly arranged for the
kidnapping
of the adoptive daughter of
Alderaan
's
senator
Bail Prestor Organa
,
Leia Organa
, in an attempt to lure the
Jedi Master
Obi-Wan Kenobi
out of hiding following her discovery of a connection between Bail and Obi-Wan in the
Jedi Archives
. As expected, Obi-Wan came out of hiding at the personal request of Bail, and traveling to
Daiyu
, the planet where Bail had tracked the mercenaries two kidnapped Leia to.
The Grand Inquisitor confronted the Third Sister over the abduction of Leia Organa
As Obi-Wan travelled the streets of Daiyu, passing a pair of
stormtroopers
while he did so, the Third Sister was confronted by the Grand Inquisitor, accompanied by the Fifth Brother and the Fourth Sister. During the confrontation, the Grand Inquisitor took control of the situation and the hunt for Kenobi before berating the third sister for kidnapping the daughter of an Imperial senator, despite the Third Sister's argument that the
Inquisitorius
had done worse. Additionally, the Grand Inquisitor informed the Third Sister that she would be punished at a later time for stepping out of line. Despite this, the Third Sister once again defied her superiors by placing a bounty on the Obi-Wan's head with the intent to use
bounty hunters
and mercenaries to draw the Jedi Master out.
Shortly afterward, the Grand Inquisitor had the Fifth Brother shut down the planet's port and request a garrison within an hour, before the Fourth Sister then came to him and showed the bounty on Kenobi's head. Shortly after, two stormtroopers brought
Vect Nokru
, one of Leia's kidnappers, to the Grand Inquisitor, who then interrogated the kidnapper on the location of Kenobi, as the inquisitor knew that Nokru had placed the bounty. However, Nokru stated he did not know, prompting the Inquisitor to murder the kidnapper with his lightsaber.
The Grand Inquisitor was stabbed by the Third Sister
Not long after, the Third Sister saw an firefight between Kenobi and several bounty hunters, and made her way there from the Daiyu rooftops. Upon reaching ground level, the Third Sister was stopped by the con artist
Haja Estree
, who, in an effort to stall her, pretended to be a Jedi. However, the Third Sister instead probed Estree's mind, discovering that Leia and Obi-Wan were planning to escape Daiyu at a cargo
spaceport
, before making her way there.
upon arriving at the cargo port, the Third Sister attempted to force Obi-Wan and Leia by boasting about delivering the Jedi Master to Darth Vader. However, she was then interrupted by the Grand Inquisitor, who had had enough of the Third Sister's defiance, and as a result, ordered the Third Sister to step aside. The Third Sister pretended to comply before then stabbing the Grand Inquisitor though his torso, believing herself to have killed the inquisitor. However, as she did so, Kenobi and Leia escaped aboard a cargo shuttle, causing the Third Sister to yell that the Empire would find him.
Next in Line
Not long after the confrontation, the Third Sister contacted Vader, who was at his fortress on
Mustafar
, of the Jedi's escape and of the Grand Inquisitor's apparent death. In response, Vader informed the Third Sister that if Kenobi was captured, the position of Grand Inquisitor would be hers, but if she failed, she would not live to regret it. Shortly after, the Third Sister met up with the Fifth Brother and the Fourth Sister, instructing them to send out all remaining
Probe droids
at their disposal. Despite the Fifth Brother questioning the Third Sister's authority in the belief that he was next in line, the Fifth Brother obliged after the Third Sister explained that she had spoken with Vader and it had been agreed.
Mining on Mapuzo
Stormtroopers shared a ride on Freck's truck with Obi-Wan and Leia
Having escaped to the
planet
Mapuzo
but unable to find a contact, Obi-Wan and Leia convinced a passing Imperial
mining
transport
driver by the name of
Freck
to take them to the nearest
spaceport
under the guise of being
farmers
from
Tawl
, which the
Condluran
agreed to. During the journey, Freck revealed himself to be a staunch supporter of the Empire, before Freck stopped and offered a ride on
his truck
to a squad of traveling
stormtroopers
, who accepted the ride. During the journey, the stormtroopers questioned Obi-Wan and Leia over the occuptation and reason for being there, to which the pair lied to about being farmers visiting the
homeworld
of Leia's mother. Seemingly convinced, the troopers told the pair to report anything suspicious if they saw anything, before then disembarking after arriving near an
Imperial facility
, which the troops then walked to.
Freck reported his suspicious passengers to Imperial troops at a checkpoint
Not long after, Freck stoped his vehicle at an
Imperial checkpoint
, and suspicious of the pair, reported the pair to the troopers stationed at the checkpoint. As a result, a stormtrooper ordered Obi-Wan out of the vehicle, which he complied with, before then using a
viper probe droid
to scan Obi-Wan's face, informing the inquisitorius of Obi-Wan's location and forcing the Jedi to brandish his blaster and destroy the droid. In the resulting firefight, Ferrix and the troopers at the checkpoint fell, before a trio of stormtroopers along with an
Imperial officer
arrived to aid in the firefight. However, upon their arrival, the stormtroopers were killed by the
officer
, who in reality was
a member
of the
Hidden Path
.
Vader dueled his former master on Mapuzo
Not long after the trio had made their way to a
mining town
with a spaceport,
Darth Vader
, three Inquisitors, as well as a squad of stormtroopers arrived to the settlement and began
terrorizing and killing
random civilians to draw Obi-Wan out. As a result, Obi-Wan made his way to a quarry before Vader revealed himself to his old master, before obi-Wan drew his lightsaber and ran off, causing Vader to follow his master. As Obi-Wan traversed the quarry, Vader then revealed himself from the darkness and swung his lightsaber at Obi-Wan, who deflected the blade with his own, causing a short duel to ensue, which Vader quickly won. As a result, Vader was able to force Obi-wan backwards before then knocking down a storage container filled with flammable rocks,  igniting them with his lightsaber. As he did so, Vader then forced Kenobi into the flames. Momentarily satisfied, Vader then ordered his stormtroopers to seize Obi-Wan before the hidden path member returned and reignited the rock with a shot of a blaster cutting Obi-Wan off from Vader and his troops, allowing him to escape the Empire's clutches. However, Leia, who had made her way to a ship at the town's spaceport,
was recaptured by the Empire and brought to
Fortress Inquisitorius
.
Infiltrating Fortress Inquisitorius
Leia was brought to Fortress Inquisitorius (pictured)
After being brought to Fortress Inquisitorius, Leia was brought to an interrogation cell, where the handcuffed
princess
told the stormtroopers guarding her of her importance, though to little avail. Shortly thereafter, the Third Sister entered the room and told Leia that the Empire did not tolerate Jedi sympathizers, before sharing how the inquisitors had uncovered the Hidden Path, before asking for Leia's help in finding the remaining members. In response, Leia asked how Kenobi died, to which the Third Sister stated he had been burned to death, claiming that that members of the Path had abandoned Kenobi, before offering to let Leia return to her family if she reveals where the Path is. However, Leia claimed to not know of the path, causing the Third Sister to repeat her offer. However, Leia continued to defy the inquisitor, causing her to perform a mind probe on the young princess to attempt to extract information. As she did so, Leia released her small droid
L0-LA59
as a distraction, though the Third Sister caught the droid, later adding a
tracker
to it, before sharing that she had a droid of her own when she was younger.
Simultaneously, Tala Durith arrived to the Fortress Inquisitorius' hangar bay disguised as an Imperial officer aboard an
Imperial light shuttle
, before making her way to a security checkpoint where she claimed she had class C clearance to a security officer, who then scanned her
Code cylinder
. However, the security officer denied Tala's entry on the grounds that she was outside her sector, to which Tala claimed that she had classified intelligence and threatened to report him to the Grand Inquisitor, convincing the Security Officer to allow Tala in.
Meanwhile, a guarding stormtrooper at port control in the underwater section of the fortress encountered and was quickly overpowered by Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had made his way in underwater using directions from Tala, who was using a
viewscreen
terminal to guide him in. However, she was stopped by an
Imperial officer
who recognized that it was not her terminal, who then asked to see Tala's identification. The officer then ushered Tala away, where he was then incapacitated by the poser. Soon after, a patrol of stormtroopers and a
seeker droid
overheard chatter from Tala through Kenobi's commlink, and quickly investigated, but were then distracted by a force trick from Kenobi.
The Third Sister was suspicious of Tala
Soon after, Leia was brought to a
torture
chamber and fastened into a torture harness by a pair of stormtroopers, before the Third Sister turned the torture machine on while giving the Princess one last chance to cooperate. However, as she did so, an officer entered the interrogation chamber with a request from Tala for an audience, which the Third Sister accepted. During the meeting, Tala claimed that she was a spy for the Empire in the Path and that the group was operating from
Florrum
in the
Sertar sector
, advising the Third Sister to send Imperial forces, but the Third Sister, after questioning how Leia and Kenobi had escaped an Imperial checkpoint on Mapuzo, ordered Tala to be apprehended. However, as Tala was captured, the fortress's klaxons went off as Kenobi, having defeated the stormtrooper guards in the interrogation room and saved Leia, contacted Tala, distracting the stormtroopers guarding her and allowing Tala to break free and defeat them with a blaster.
Stormtroopers guarding Leia were defeated by Kenobi
Simultaneously, stormtroopers guarding the interrogation chamber encountered and were defeated by Kenboi, who then freed Leia, before stormtroopers and a seeker droid chased the pair, the latter of which Kenobi eventually took out. The pair eventually fled into a tunnel surrounded by water on all sides as the Third Sister, a
Purge Trooper
, and stormtrooper reinforcements closed in, shutting the blast door as they did so. Despite the Imperial troops quickly breaking through, Kenobi allowed a crack on the window which he had held in with the Force to break, flooding the tunnels and taking out the troops.
The Third Sister and Imperial Troops confronted Kenobi, Tala, and Leia in the hanger of Fortress Inquisitorius
Meanwhile, the Fifth Brother, alongside the Fourth Sister, locked down Fortress Inquisitorius, with the former blaming the Third Sister for mishandling the situation. Despite Kenobi, Tala, and Leia reaching the fortress's hanger after, the Third Sister, several Purge troopers as well as stormtroopers caught up with the escapees. The Third Sister denounced Tala as a traitor to the Empire. Tala responded to this, before the Third Sister motioned for the assembled Imperial soldiers to shoot the hostiles. However, a pair of
T-47 airspeeders
suddenly arrived and strafed the Imperial forces on the platform, allowing the hostiles to flee aboard one such
airspeeder
, during which Tala and Kenobi defeated several more troopers and a
MSE-6 series repair droid
. As the airspeeders made their escape, the Third Sister hurled a rectangular explosive at an airspeeder using the Force, destroying the airspeeder and killing its occupant,
Wade Resselian
. Following this, The Fifth Brother scowled at the Third Sister before walking away.
Blockading Ghorman
"
My bill assails the coarse and blatant domination of a peaceful and faithful ally.
"
―Senator Mon Mothma
By
5 BBY
, Krennic found himself faced with numerous scientific setbacks
and forced to testify before the
Imperial Senate
multiple times over the use of the funding for the "energy program".
As a result, Krennic was pressured to turn his attention to sourcing new materials for use in constructing the
Mk I Superlaser
to be used in the Death Star.
One such resource was a
rare form
of the
mineral
Kalkite
, needed for
reactor lens
coatings to stabilize the Death Star's energy output, which so far had only been found on the
Colonies
planet
Ghorman
,
a planet where the Empire had only a small presence.
After working with an
engineering officer
, Krennic concluded that
Gouge mining
was required for the extraction of kalkite from Ghorman's crust, a process which was known to stress planet cores and as a result, required the
Ghorman people
. Through simulations involving
Imperial Security Bureau
Lieutenant
Moy
, repopulation tactics such as staging a natural disaster or deadly
plague
to get Ghorman's population to leave on their own accord was gamed out, leaving the complete suppression of the Ghorman people to silence resistance to repopulation and extraction efforts as the best option for the Empire.
Senator Mothma campaigned for support for the Ghorman people
As such, Krennic worked with
Ministry of Enlightenment
to begin the
suppression of Ghorman
, leading to ministry employees
Dee Shambo
and
Nisus Osar
arranging the
death
of an
inspector
in the
Imperial Navy
after months of Ghorman noncompliance with Naval inspections to stir
Anti-Ghormanism
sentiment in the galaxy's population.
However, in the aftermath of the Naval
inspector
's death the
Imperial Ruling Council
, including council members
Ars Dangor
and
Sly Moore
, had the Galactic Empire
blockade
shipping lanes
to Ghorman.
As a result, the Ghorman people starved until the
blockade
was lifted on the order of the
Imperial Senate
once
Senator
Mon Mothma
rallied
enough support for the Ghormans. Despite the blockade being lifted, Ghorman's senator
Dasi Oran
was faced with the harsh reality that, —as Ghorman had a single product economy that's export was
Ghorman twill
— essentials of survival were imported— and as such a similar crackdown could spell doom for his people.
Combating the growing rebellion
Eye of Aldhani
"
We're treating what happened at Aldhani like a robbery."
"What would you call it?"
"An announcement.
"
―ISB Supervisor Meero and ISB Attendant Heert
By
5 BBY
, the Galactic Empire had made plans for the expansion of the
Aldhani dam
involving the
enslavement
of many
Dhanis
, with
Engineering officer
Colonel
Soden Petigar
placed in charge of overseeing the next steps. Despite the Imperial-supported viewing event in the Enterprise Zone drawing many Dhanis away from viewing the revered celestial event known as the "
Eye of Aldhani
" in the the sacred
Valley of Caves
, the site of the Aldhani dam, some Dhanis persisted in traveling to the valley. For those Dhanis that still decided to make the ten-day trek to the valley of caves, the Empire's
Aldhani Garrison
, under the command of
commandant
Jayhold Beehaz
and aware that the Dhanis would refuse, offered transport to the valley from the Lowlands and established
Comfort Units
along the route, convincing many to abandon the long journey and eventually dwindling the number of pilgrims from five hundred to around sixty.
That same year, Colonel Petigar visited the dam to inspect it for the expansion project, which commandant Beehaz viewed as a way off
Aldhani
for him and
his family
.
Around that time,
TIE/ln space superiority starfighters
from
Alkenzi Air Base
, an
airbase
located fifty-two
klicks
from the Aldhani dam, performed patrol flights across
Aldhani
's
Highlands
, with one
starfighter
passing but not spotting the rebel freedom fighters
Vel Sartha
and
Cassian Andor
. Later, another another
Imperial pilot
performed a flyby in their TIE fighter past what they thought was a
farm
,  which in reality, was a
camp
serving as a base of operations for the
group of rebels
Andor and Sartha were a part of, which planned to steal the quarterly payroll of Imperial troops in the
Cademimu sector
stored at the Aldhani dam. During the planning stages of the heist, one of the team's members,
Karis Nemik
, wrote a
maniesto
that would later be spread
galaxy
-wide
in which Nemik theorized that the Empire's need for control was unnatural, its authority was brittle, its oppression was the mask of fear, and as a result, soon enough, the Empire would be overrun with defiance and its control would break.
The rebel infiltrator team kidnapped the Aldhani Dam's head officers and Beehaz's family
On the eve of the Eye of Aldhani, the Imperial officers discussed the Dhani's arrival and the plans for the dam, before the group of Imperial officers went down to the Dhanis to trade a hide with a
Dhani chieftain
, which the Empire believed to be a way of "leasing" the land from the Dhanis. Shortly afterward, the rebel group, with the help of disgruntled Imperial
Lieutenant
Gorn
, infiltrated the Aldhani dam while disguised as
Imperial security troopers
and took the Imperial command at the dam and Beehaz's family hostage. While being taken hostage, Colonel Petigar attempted to free
Beehaz's son
, but was ultimately unsuccessful and was instead shot to death. Holding both the Beehaz and his family at gunpoint in separate locations, Beehaz was the forced to open the vault holding the Imperial payroll as the dam's comms shut down, before the rebel team then had the Imperial staff on the deck load the payroll into the
Box freighter
parked in the dam.
Alkenzi air base scrambled several TIE fighters to intercept the runaway rebel ship
As Imperial staff loaded the box freighter with the
Imperial credits
from the payroll, the dam's communications technician
Kimzi
picked up the rebel team's comlink frequency through the lack of other frequencies and overheard the team's comm chatter, quickly deducing the robbery happening below him. In a quick response, Kimzi gathered a security force to intercept the rebels and made their way to the vault. Upon the troop's arrival there, Gorn attempted to force Beehaz to keep the façade of a "classified mission" and order the men to leave, but Beehaz instead dropped dead from exhaustion, causing a firefight to break out as the rebels made their way into the box freighter with a large portion of the payroll before escaping aboard it. As the box freighter took off from the damn towards the Eye of Aldhani, the lack of response from the Aldhani dam at the nearby
Alkenzi Air Base
caused the
base's command staff
to scramble several TIE/ln space superiority starfighters to intercept the freighter. However, as both the fighters and the box freighters entered the
crystal belt
, the tie fighters were broken apart by the flying crystals while the box freighter successfully navigated the eye, allowing the rebels to escape.
Imperial Crackdown
"
The criminals responsible for last night's atrocity on Aldhani think they've taken the Empire by surprise. We know better. We know the real shock will be when they discover how ready and eager we are to respond, to be prepared, to be here this morning and know that the only question we need to answer is how tight to close our fist. This is why we plan. This is why we work so hard when we're at peace. This is why we recruit so carefully and demand so much.
"
―Wullf Yularen
Yularen informed the ISB board of the Imperial response to the Aldhani Heist
In the immediate aftermath of the
Aldhani heist
,
Imperial Security Bureau
Major
Lio Partagaz
ordered that the ISB'S
Investigations
branch prepare every
Star Sector and Planetary Emergency Retaliation plan
by the coming midnight.
As they prepared the plans,
Director
of the ISB
Wullf Yularen
met with
Emperor
Palpatine
to discuss how to proceed. In the end, measures of a tax equivalent to five times what was stolen from Aldhani for any
Sector
found to be harboring rebels and the permanent revocation of Imperial tolerance for any custom or festival used as a cover for rebel activity were adopted Empire-wide. Additionally, two bills were introduced by the Emperor to the
Imperial Senate
and easily passed— the
Imperial Emergency Act
, which gave ISB agents the authority to request personnel, data, and material support from the
Imperial Military
— and the
Public Order Resentencing Directive
, which saw all criminal sentenced reevaluated, all outstanding fines and levies ordered to be pain in full immediately, and all offenses towards the Galactic Empire, both direct and indirect, to be treated as a class one offense under the
Imperial Penal Code
. The related information was communicated to the
ISB Board
by Yularen directly the same day that the acts passed.
Lothal rebellion
"
We are getting reports of unrest all over Lothal. There are whispers from Mustafar. Some people see the Empire as weak. Vulnerable.
"
"
Not to worry, Agent Kallus. The Emperor has sent an alternative solution.
"
―Alexsandr Kallus and Wilhuff Tarkin
By
5 BBY
,
separate insurgencies across the Imperial territories had formed but were of little consequence, though the Emperor did foresee a new threat rising against the Empire—the children of the Force. But the Empire overall did not fear that the various rebel cells could unite and form a more potent menace against the Empire and its interests in the Outer Rim. Imperial Military command maintained a list of known Rebel sympathizers on several Outer Rim worlds, including Lothal, but most of them were not arrested due to their having powerful allies in the Senate, a known hotbed of corruption and decadence.
Mustafar was a volcanic world and Sith sanctuary, where fugitive Jedi were taken to for interrogation, torment, and death.
Among these cells on Lothal were the
Spectres
, who manned the
Ghost
.
When rumor of the discovery of Jarrus' Jedi identity and his duty on leading the Spectres began to emerge, the Empire sent the
Grand Inquisitor
to track him down.
The Jedi survivor was to be taken to Darth Vader's
fortress
on Mustafar,
yet in
4 BBY
,
in a daring
battle
over Mustafar that marked the first major rebel victory in the Galactic Civil War, the
Ghost
crew rescued Jarrus and joined with a growing rebellion.
The rebels, commanded by Ahsoka Tano, were part of a larger rebel movement across the entire galaxy which included several cells, led by Tano and Imperial Senator Bail Organa, and purposely kept in darkness about the existence of one another to prevent information leaks and Imperial crackdowns. Following rumors of an Imperial defeat over Mustafar, spontaneous riots and unrest on several Imperial worlds occurred. The size of the rebellion had also caused concern in the higher ranks of the Empire. With the Grand Inquisitor's death, the Emperor sent his loyal enforcer, Darth Vader, to quash the threat to the Empire's reign.
The Empire stripped Lothal of its natural resources, causing extreme pollution and scattered fires across the planet.
Following the events on Mustafar, Lord Vader imposed a complete
lockdown and blockade
of the planet as a disillusioned
Minister
Tua contacted the Spectres to defect to the rebellion, with ISB
agent
Alexsandr Kallus
using this to lure the rebels back to Lothal and to
capture
them, but Tua was killed during the escape attempt. This prompted Kallus to frame the rebels for her murder and send Imperial forces to search for them. The rebels evaded arrest by hiding in the
Imperial Complex
only to be met by Darth Vader and a duel; however, the rebels escaped in a stolen
shuttle
. Vader ordered Kallus to raze Lothal re-settlement camp 43, known as Tarkintown, to punish the locals for accepting help from the rebels.
After breaking the Imperial blockade, Vader
attacked
the
Phoenix Cell
fleet that had been sent from the Organa-Tano alliance of rebel cells, who had come to the aid of the Spectres and inflicted high casualties on it, forcing both rebel cells to retreat into
hyperspace
. With this, the Empire's operations had been a success and while remaining a threat to the Empire even after pushing the rebels off-world, order had nevertheless been restored on the vital world of Lothal and caused a major setback to the rebellion.
Further rebel activity
"
Send a probe to investigate. All leads must be pursued.
"
―Alexsandr Kallus
In the aftermath of the victory on Lothal, Admiral Konstantine and the Imperial Navy continued to securing the Outer Rim and also hunting for these rebels. He was accompanied by Agent Kallus, who also had experience dealing with these rebels during the revolt on Lothal who had traveled to the desert planet of
Seelos
to make contact with several retired clone troopers: Rex, Wolffe, and Gregor and hoped to win them over to their cause but Wolffe who distrusted the rebels sent a coded transmission that was picked up by the
Relentless
.
A trio of retired clone troopers joined the early Rebellion against the Galactic Empire.
Agent Kallus led a ground assault with three
AT-AT walkers
. Konstantine remained aboard the
Relentless
to render air support to Kallus' forces. However, the clones and rebels joined forces and put up a fierce fight and immobilized Kallus AT-AT walkers. The admiral, however, had been unable to render air support because Lord Vader had ordered him to rendezvous with his
shuttle
in space,
but instead of meeting Vader, Konstantine received another Inquisitor known as the
Fifth Brother
. When Konstantine raised his concerns that the diversion might have compromised Agent Kallus' mission, the Inquisitor merely replied that his struggles were of no concern to him and pledged to stop the rebels himself.
The rebels later helped deliver relief supplies to the famine-stricken planet
Ibaar
, which was being
blockaded
by an Imperial fleet. The Empire had doubled the Ibaarians' work quotas and reduced their rations, creating a famine. The first attempt failed and ended with the destruction of the
CR90 corvette
transporting the supplies. Still, the rebel network persisted, and the rebels broke through the blockade with the help of a
Blade Wing prototype starfighter
, which destroyed one of the
Arquitens
-class command cruisers
. This enabled the rebels to deliver supplies to the Ibaarian resistance, which subsequently distributed the supplies.
While searching for a missing patrol in the
Del Zennis system
, Commander Sato, Ezra, and several other rebels were captured by an
Imperial Interdictor
, a prototype warship equipped with
gravity well projectors
capable of dragging ships out of hyperspace. In response, Kanan, along with Rex and Chopper, staged a rescue mission which ended with the destruction of the Interdictor, dealing a serious blow to Imperial forces.
Princess Leia Organa of Alderaan feigned loyalty to the Empire while secretly supporting the Rebellion.
Lacking a permanent base, one rebel group—the Phoenix Squadron—hid in several
spaceports
scattered across the planet
Garel
, but the Empire learned of the rebel presence there and sent a fleet to crush them with most retreating.
Following the losses on Garel, Imperial Senator Organa sent his adopted daughter
Princess
Leia Organa
of
Alderaan
to deliver three
Sphyrna
-class Hammerhead corvettes
to the Rebellion. Since the Alderaanians could not be seen directly supporting the Phoenix rebels, Bail arranged for Leia to deliver the vessels to Lothal, where in secret the rebels would "steal" the ships. However, the local Imperial commander
Yogar Lyste
had fitted the Hammerhead corvettes with
gravity locks
, but this failed when the rebels stole the vessel during a
skirmish
with Imperial forces.
The Rebels captured Fenn Rau, a Mandalorian Protector who served the Empire.
With the Empire hunting down the rebels throughout the Outer Rim Territories, the rebels decided to create a new route through the
Lothal sector
. Sabine identified the
Concord Dawn system
as a viable route that the rebels could use. The system was home to the
Mandalorian Protectors
, a Mandalorian faction that was led by
Fenn Rau
, a veteran of the Clone Wars. Commander Sato sent Phoenix Leader Hera and Sabine on a mission to negotiate safe passage through the Concord Dawn system with Rau. However, Rau had already aligned the Protectors with the Empire and
attacked
Hera's mission, seriously wounding Hera and killing at least one
Phoenix Squadron
pilot. In retaliation, Sabine and Kanan infiltrated the
Protectors' camp
on the
third moon
of
Concord Dawn
and destroyed their
Fang-class
fighters. The rebels also captured Rau, who agreed to give the rebels safe passage through the Concord Dawn system in return for keeping his capture a secret from the Empire.
Showdown on Malachor
"
The power within will soon serve the Emperor.
"
―Darth Vader
Imperial Inquisitors fighting the Jedi and Maul.
Eventually, an Inquisitor called the
Eighth Brother
was sent to
seek
a
shadow
on
Malachor
, within the depths of the
Sith Temple
on the planet's surface. At the same time Kanan, Ezra and Ahsoka from the rebellion arrived and immediately recognized him as the former
Sith Lord
Maul, to who also the Inquisitors confirmed was alive and after the death of the three Inquisitors, Maul turned on his Jedi allies and blinded Kanan. The rebels' problems were further complicated by the arrival of Darth Vader, who had come to take the secrets of the temple for himself. The Jedi removed the holocron from the temple's obelisk, which triggered an implosion that damaged much of the temple. While the two Jedi escaped on the
Phantom
with Chopper, Ahsoka stayed behind to hold back Vader. The Imperial mission to Malachor was a partial failure, as both the Jedi and Maul escaped, but Jarrus was blinded in a duel against Maul while Ezra began exploring the dark side, and the rebellion Jedi leadership was broken.
But the rebel cells continued working on growing and expanding as the Spectres conducted a
raid
on
Naraka
prison
and
set out
to
Reklam Station
, where the Empire was dismantling thousands of Republic-era
Y-wing starfighters
. Imperial security forces failed to prevent both the destruction of the station and the theft of five Y-wings, which were transferred to
General
Jan Dodonna
's
unit
. Meanwhile, all the increased rebel activity led Governor
Arihnda Pryce
of the Lothal sector to request the aid of the
Seventh Fleet
to deal with the Phoenix Group, which was granted by Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin and led by
Grand Admiral
Thrawn, who was promoted for
wiping out
the rebel presence in the
Batonn sector
. While Agent Kallus was concerned about the high civilian casualties, Pryce justified Thrawn's actions on the grounds that there were no more rebels there and was given control over the efforts to destroy the growing rebellion before it could become a true threat to the Galactic Empire's reign over the Outer Rim by setting out a strategy.
Wider engagements with the rebels
"
I will start my operations here, and pull the rebels apart piece by piece. They will be the architects of their own destruction.
"
―Mitth'raw'nuruodo
Thrawn was a leading officer during the growing rebellion.
En route to provide supplies to
Teralov
, a
squadron
of
A-wings
and a
transport
were
attacked
by an Imperial
Arquitens
-class command cruiser
that dispatched three
TIE interceptors
led by
Captain
Vult Skerris
, which quickly wiped out the rebel convoy. Reeling from this loss, the Phoenix rebels dispatched the former
Imperial cadet
Sabine Wren
to
infiltrate
the
Skystrike Academy
to extract the disillusioned cadets
Wedge Antilles
,
Hobbie
, and
Rake Gahree
, in which the rebel and defectors would be able to escape from the Empire's grip.
Later, the rebels, along with the Free Ryloth movement led by Cham Syndulla, went on a
mission
to Ryloth, where they learned that Thrawn—who had studied the tactics used by the rebellion and now had direct command of Imperial forces—had made military advances led by Captain
Slavin
in the
Tann Province
.
The Spectres undertook a
supply run
to the
Agamar
to obtain
proton bombs
from a Separatist transport ship. However, they were captured by a
Separatist holdout
led by the
super tactical droid
General
Kalani
. The droid general wished to end the Clone Wars on his own terms, and challenged the rebels to a battle that would decide the victors, but Imperial forces suddenly arrived and attacked the Separatist ship. The rebels and Separatists came to the conclusion that the Empire was the real victor of the Clone Wars, and decided to unite in order to escape the Empire. While the Imperial Viceroy,
Gar Saxon
, discovered that the rebels were using the Concord Dawn system to avoid Imperial sector patrols. Saxon destroyed the Protectors' encampment on the third moon of Concord Dawn in an attempt to lure Fenn Rau back.
The Empire had planned to impose martial law on the planet
Mykapo
which rebels made efforts to evacuate rebel sympathizers. Upon arriving, the flotilla encountered a
light freighter
, which was engaged in a
dogfight
with an Imperial advance patrol calling themselves the
Iron Squadron
. Thrawn, who was aware of this Rebel presence in the system, dispatched a light cruiser to assess the situation, placed under the command of Admiral
Kassius Konstantine
in order to test the officer's questionable capabilities. The admiral crippled the Iron Squadron's freighter, prompting the crew with the exception of Mattin to escape aboard the
Phantom II
with the Spectres. The rebels returned with reinforcements from Phoenix Squadron to rescue Mattin. During the skirmish, Konstantine's cruiser was badly damaged, and most of his forces were destroyed. The rebels fled into lightspeed just as the
Chimaera
arrived in the system.
Soon after, the rebels returned to Lothal and began an
infiltration
of the
Imperial Armory Complex
to obtain the blueprints for a
prototype TIE fighter
. However, their mission coincided with a visit by Grand Admiral Thrawn on behalf of Imperial High Command, who was investigating the high rate of sabotage within the factory. The rebels, however, escaped the factory with sensitive Imperial information with the help of the now disillusioned Agent Kallus, who had become an informant for the rebellion. As a result of this rebel attack, Thrawn realized that the Empire had a traitor among their ranks.
Following this, there was an increase of the
Imperial Navy
presence such as capital ships in and around Lothal as part of Imperial orbital defenses.
Beyond the Lothal system, rebellious activities increased, such as on Geonosis, where Captain
Brunson
responded to a triggered proximity sensor and discovered the Spectres
vessel
Ghost
on the
planet
who had saved both
Saw Gerrera
after his
Partisans
scout team was killed. Hoping to earn herself and her crew promotions, she attempted to destroy the rebels using
TIE bombers
and
rocket troopers
, and finally by trapping the rebels in an underground
cavern
in attempt to bury them alive. When she used her
cruiser
to block their escape, this backfired, as the
Ghost
fired two
proton torpedoes
, resulting in the destruction of her ship with the rebels who recovered images of the poison canisters that were used for the
sterilization of Geonosis
in order to show the Imperial Senate and rally more systems to their cause.
Thrawn later dispatched several
E-XD-series infiltrator droids
to search the Outer Rim for rebel bases. However, Kallus used the rebel identity Fulcrum to warn the base's
Chief of Security
Garazeb Orrelios about the threat. As a result, he and his fellow rebels
Chopper
and
AP-5
stopped the infiltrator droid
EXD-9
from
infiltrating
the
rebel base
on
Atollon
. They turned E-XD9 into an improvised bomb that destroyed a Star Destroyer. Despite their efforts, Thrawn narrowed the search for the rebel base to 94 systems.
The Empire lost a local ally in the form of Viceroy Gar Saxon, the
Emperor's Hand
and puppet ruler of
Mandalore
. Gar Saxon was defeated during a
duel
with the rebel Sabine Wren on the planet of
Krownest
. Saxon's death triggered a power vacuum among the Mandalorians. Sabine then joined forces with her mother,
Ursa Wren
, and the former Protectors' leader Fenn Rau to reunify the Mandalorians.
Continuing his investigation into the rebel mole, Grand Admiral Thrawn began screening the Imperial sector command staff within the Lothal sector with the help of Imperial Security Bureau Colonel
Wullf Yularen
, a veteran of the Clone Wars. Thrawn summoned several Imperial officials including Agent Kallus,
Lieutenant
Yogar Lyste, Captain Brunson, and
Commander
Brom Titus
for questioning aboard his flagship,
Chimaera
. After learning that Thrawn was intercepting Kallus' transmissions, the Spectres and Rex mounted a
mission
to rescue Kallus. During the course of the mission, Kallus joined forces with the rebels to delete the planet Atollon, which hosted Chopper Base, from Thrawn's database. However, Kallus elected not to escape with the rebels and instead framed his colleague Lyste as Fulcrum. Thrawn learned of Kallus' deception but kept this information secret since he hoped to manipulate Kallus into uncovering the Phoenix rebel base.
A united foe
The Imperial Navy led efforts to counter the Rebel Alliance.
With full-scale rebellion on the horizon, Imperial Senator
Mon Mothma
would openly betray the Empire by seeking to unite the various rebellions cells into one organization. She began by firstly publicly condemning the reign of Emperor Palpatine after the
Ghorman Massacre
which led to Commander Vult Skerris leading the
effort
for her capture in the
Archeon Nebula
. However, the mission ended in failure, and she was able to escape. This led to her broadcasting a speech to rebels across the galaxy over
Dantooine
, which led to the formation of various rebel cells into the alliance to restore the Galactic Republic and, along with her resignation from the Imperial Senate, the beginning of a true united rebellion.
Galactic Civil War
Insurgency Rising
Battle of Atollon
Soon after its founding, the Rebel Alliance pressed on with the planned operation on Lothal by
stealing
clearance codes from the Imperial Security Bureau station on
Killun 71
to allow their forces to mount a successful attack on the Empire.
However, the planned rebel attack on Lothal did not go forward thanks to Thrawn, who had discovered the location of Chopper Base, the headquarters of the Phoenix Group. Thrawn's fleet
blockaded
Atollon and inflicted heavy casualties on rebel forces. Thrawn launched a ground assault after an orbital bombardment. Meanwhile, Ezra, who had escaped the fighting, enlisted the help of
Clan Wren
.
In response, Governor Pryce dispatched Jumptroopers, but these reinforcements failed to stop the Mandalorians from destroying the last Interdictor cruiser. Despite Thrawn storming Chopper Base, the rebels and Imperials were attacked by an angry
Bendu
, an enigmatic being that was living on Atollon, who used his Force powers to devastate the rebel base before being subdued by Thrawn. The surviving rebel and Mandalorian forces fled the battle as the Empire wiped out the Phoenix Squadron; however, the Empire was still unaware of the true scale of the Rebel Alliance.
Nonetheless, the routing at Atollon was seen as proof by the rebels that they were not yet ready for open war with the Empire.
Mandalorian Civil War
Meanwhile,
civil war
raged on Imperial-occupied Mandalore, with the Rebel Alliance setting out to rescue Sabine's father and Imperial prisoner
Alrich Wren
from Governor
Tiber Saxon
. Clan Wren rescued Alrich with the help of the rebels. In response, Saxon unleashed the Arc Pulse Generator known as the Duchess against the Clan Wren forces, killing many. Sabine led the Mandalorians and rebels on a mission to infiltrate Saxon's Star Destroyer, which was above Sundari and were ambushed by Imperial forces, which resulted in the Mandalorians and rebels' success in destroying the weapon and Saxon's flagship.
While not pursuing an agenda of open war, the rebels continued their campaign and mounted successful raids on both
Jalindi
and the
Faos Station
. The Empire failed to stop both the Partisan and Spectre efforts, resulting in the loss of Commander Brom Titus and Captain Slavin.
On Lothal, the Imperial Security Bureau conducted a successful raid against a suspected rebel cell allied with the Spectres.
However, the efforts of the Lothal rebels and their allies brought about the
Liberation of Lothal
, with Thrawn going missing when Bridger forced himself and the Grand Admiral into hyperspace aboard the
Chimaera
.
At some point, a
prisoner uprising
was launched within the
Cherridan Imperial labor camp
, but it was put down in a brutal fashion. A failure for the Empire, however, came when an
assault
on the
Winter's Edge stormtrooper garrison
ended in success for the enemy.
The Ultimate Weapon
Destruction of Jedha City
"
There is no Death Star. We're informing the Senate that Jedha was destroyed in a mining disaster.
"
―Darth Vader
The Death Star firing on Jedha City.
A
local insurgency
was carried out by Gerrera's Partisans on the
desert
moon
of
Jedha
,
an Imperial
protectorate
,
in the ancient streets of
Jedha City
as part of their
larger campaign
against the Galactic Empire. Unknown to many of them, Director Orson Krennic and Grand Moff Tarkin had decided to test the capability of the Empire's new
superweapon
-equipped
battle station
, the
Death Star
, by
firing
its
superlaser
at the city using a single-
reactor
ignition.
At least 3% of Jedha's Imperial forces were presumed destroyed in the blast as well, having been unable to evacuate. The Imperial casualties included such forces as
JN-093's squad
, who had been assigned to check possible rebel hiding spots outside the city, leaving them unable to get to the extraction point in time.
The Empire subsequently fabricated a cover story for the Imperial Senate that Jedha was destroyed in a mere mining disaster.
Battle of Scarif
Romodi and Tarkin discussing the Battle of Scarif.
A group of rebels under the callsign
Rogue One
had
captured
the blueprints for the Death Star, which had just been completed after nearly two decades of work on
Scarif
. They infiltrated the planetary shield in a stolen
Zeta
-class Heavy Cargo Shuttle
and waged a guerrilla assault on the base's outskirts, drawing away Imperial forces, while the rebels could access the
Citadel Tower
.
However, they received support from the
Alliance Fleet
under Admiral
Raddus
, whose forces engaged the Imperial Star Destroyers above Scarif and aimed to destroy the
Shield Gate
. Rogue One transmitted the stolen plans to the fleet above, but by the order of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin, they along with
Director
Orson Krennic
were eradicated by a low-powered blast from the arrived Death Star that destroyed the Citadel and surrounding area. By then, the Sith Lord Darth Vader's forces had destroyed the rebel ships that did not manage to retreat, but he failed to get the plans back as they were transported to Imperial Senator and Princess Leia Organa on the
Tantive IV
.
Reveal of the Death Star
"
Alderaan was supposedly selected as the Death Star's first full-scale target to compel Princess Leia into revealing the location of the main rebel base. But this is only a partial explanation. The Death Star ceased to be a secret weapon as soon as it entered Alderaanian orbit. It was never going to leave the planet intact. It is therefore highly likely that Tarkin and the Emperor had pre-selected Alderaan because of, rather than in spite of, its inhabitants' pacifism and the way their morality had caused the Empire numerous political problems in the Imperial Senate. They intended to send a message about where all forms of resistance to Imperial rule—even non-violent resistance—would now lead, something Palpatine made even more clear when he simultaneously disbanded the Senate.
"
―Beaumont Kin reflects on the destruction of Alderaan
The Death Star closes in on Alderaan.
Imperial forces commanded by Darth Vader captured one of the leaders of the Alliance and the one who possessed the plans, Princess of Alderaan Leia Organa—who, unknown to Vader, was his own daughter.
While nearly all of the old institutions of the Republic had been swept away in the intervening decades, this provided Sidious the opportunity to finally wipe away the last vestiges of the old
democracy
, and
dissolve the Imperial Senate
permanently. This brought governance of the various systems of the Empire directly under the purview of the Regional Governors and the Imperial Military.
Organa's presence, and her refusal to give up the location of the Alliance's base, precipitated Grand Moff Tarkin's decision to test-fire the newly completed Death Star's primary weapon on her homeworld, Alderaan,
although historian
Beaumont Kin
later theorized Tarkin and Palpatine had pre-selected the world as a perfect target for the Death Star.
In an instant, the Imperial Military's superweapon utterly destroyed the populous, influential world. In so doing, Tarkin hoped not only to force Organa to submit but also to strike fear into any others who sought to rebel against Imperial rule.
Soon after the destruction of Alderaan, dubbed "
the Disaster
" by Alderaanian refugees, vigils for the dead were held on
Coruscant
's
Level 3204
, with many on the level having formerly lived on Alderaan. However, as soon as the circumstances behind the event became clear, the once-peaceful vigils turned into
violent riots
, with many calling for justice and revolution against the Empire.
Imperial stormtroopers
and
Coruscant underworld police
were soon called in to restore the peace, and began arresting and eventually relocating those who questioned Imperial rule.
Rescue of Princess Organa
"
Yes?
"
"
We've captured a freighter entering remains of the Alderaan system. Its markings matches those ships that blasted its way out of Mos Eisley.
"
"
They must be trying to return the stolen plans to the Princess. She may yet be of some use to us.
"
―Wilhuff Tarkin, Imperial Docking Bay Control, and Darth Vader
The destruction of the Death Star rendered nearly two decades of work and resources wasted, leaving the Empire on the brink of disaster.
Eventually, Organa was
rescued from the Death Star
by the unlikely alliance of smuggler
Han Solo
, her unknowing twin brother
Luke Skywalker
and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who sacrificed himself in his final duel with Darth Vader. The group escaped the Imperial fortress and fled to the Alliance base on
Yavin 4
, pursued by the Death Star. At Yavin 4, the Empire and the Rebels engaged in a
major battle
, with the fate of the rebellion hanging in the balance. Despite destroying a great many of the Alliance's starfighters, the battle ultimately ended up a major defeat for the Imperial forces, when Skywalker fired the shot which destroyed the Death Star. This marked the Rebellion's first major victory against the Empire.
Now viewing the growing Alliance as a credible threat, Sidious issued a communiqué the morning after the Death Star's destruction ordering all ongoing ISB operations be superseded for the immediate detention of known and suspected rebel sympathizers. Admiral
Kendal Ozzel
ordered the fleet into battle readiness.
To keep the Rebellion off balance, the Empire engaged in rushed and scrambled offenses across the galaxy and raided spice worlds such as
Kerev Doi
in an attempt to cut off possible sources of income for the Alliance.
With major military redeployments occurring around the clock, the Imperial Military began to mobilize for a full-scale galactic war, while the Rebellion began to push into the populous Imperial Mid Rim in a failed operation that only months later would become known as the
Mid Rim Retreat
, its ultimate demise owing in large part to the Empire's numerical superiority.
Aftermath of Yavin
"
We kept the skeleton of the Republic for nearly twenty years while the Death Star was constructed. Twenty years, my apprentice. All that planning is now a layer of dust orbiting around Yavin… Now, we no longer have the Senate to hold order. We do not have the Death Star to force it. Our greatest weapon is gone. Our production is in ashes. We are besieged. In all these years, we have never skirted closer to disaster.
"
―Darth Sidious
Following losses at
Phindar
and
Portocari
two weeks following the Battle of Yavin, members of the
Nashtah Squadron
learned at the
Zero Angle
bar on the
Bright Jewel Oversector Flight Base
on
Axxila III
that the military would undergo a mass reorganization, rescinding the classification between Imperial Navy and Imperial Army pilots.
Unbeknownst to the Empire following the destruction of the first Death Star, the Rebel Alliance had
evacuated their base
on Yavin 4 and was orbiting the remote world of
Orto Plutonia
in the
Pantora system
, located in the
Sujimis sector
, with the nearest Imperial presence being Moff
Abran Balfour
, who patrolled the world of
Llanic
situated at the intersection of the Llanic Spice Route and
Triellus Trade Route
.
A brief
skirmish
erupted when Luke Skywalker, in the luxury yacht the
Desert Jewel
, attacked two TIE fighters assaulting a
Kupohan
ship. Unknown to Skywalker at the time, the ship was in reality carrying a Kupohan spy with vital intelligence regarding
Drusil Bephorin
, a
Givin
woman with a reputation for being able to slice into security systems at an astonishing rate and interpret encoded messages at breathtaking speed. Desperately searching for the Alliance Fleet, the Empire sought to convince Drusil to use her cryptographic skills to aid them and kept her in a sort of luxurious imprisonment on
Denon
in an effort to sway her favor. Secretly, Drusil offered to join the Alliance as long as the rebels could extract her family to the ocean world of
Omereth
, a task given to
Major
Bren Derlin
. After a side mission to the Deep Core, Luke Skywalker,
R2-D2
and
Nakari Kelen
extracted Drusil after an elaborate chase across the galaxy, hampering the Empire's plans for a retaliatory strike against the Rebellion.
Vader concludes negotiations with Jabba.
In addition to rebel agents wreaking havoc internally, the Empire suffered desultory raids by rebel forces emboldened by their successful strike against the Death Star, with the rebels that destroyed it—
Red Squadron
—continuing to harass the Empire, especially during a
mission
above
Giju
where a transport carrying underground rebel leaders was evacuated from the planet. The Empire also continued to suffer setbacks from the Rebellion's golden boy, Luke Skywalker, including the trespass by the Jedi Purge survivor into the
Temple of Eedit
—an abandoned Jedi temple under guard of the Empire—on Devaron.
Despite the temporary turmoil instilled by the Rebels' bold strikes, the Alliance attempted even bigger operations to capitalize on its former success. Most notable was an attempt to assault, infiltrate and destroy
Weapons Factory Alpha
located in the
Corellian Industrial Cluster
on
Cymoon 1
, reputedly home to the largest weapons factory in the galaxy. In the meantime, the Empire opened negotiations with the
Hutt Clan
, led by Jabba the Hutt, to secure raw materials for Imperial Military production and secure their support for their expansion in the Outer Rim. The Rebels ultimately destroyed the factory, crippling Imperial production and causing another major setback.
Vader's punishment
"
Tarkin had vision. You have graphs.
"
"
I have graphs
and
the command.
"
―Darth Vader and Cassio Tagge
For Vader's failure to stop the destruction of both the Death Star and the Cymoon 1 factory, Darth Sidious relieved him of much of his authority and assigned him to serve in the military instead of commanding it. As much of the Empire's military command had been lost with the Death Star, the Emperor appointed General
Cassio Tagge
, the
Chief of the Imperial Army
, to the rank of
Grand General
and assigned him command of Imperial Military matters due to his foresight to fear the Alliance Fleet and doubt the invincibility of the Death Star. The Emperor pressed the military to focus on conquering the Outer Rim and destroying the Rebellion—with the Death Star gone and the Senate disbanded, the Empire lacked efficient means to keep dissenting systems in line.
Additionally, Imperial statisticians noted predictable increases in piracy following the Death Star's destruction. As a result, the military was to preserve order by any means necessary until the
second Death Star
was completed.
Under Tagge's command, the conquest of the Outer Rim progressed, with Tagge launching a significant crackdown on criminal elements that had gone unchecked in the past. The only criminal powers allowed to survive were the Hutts, per Vader's agreement with Jabba. The destruction of competitors also allowed the Hutts to capitalize on "new markets" supplied by the Empire.
After Doctor
Cylo
's attempted
hijacking
of the in-construction
Executor
-class Star Dreadnought
Executor
was put down by Vader, Palpatine demoted Tagge and rewarded Vader with command, which Vader quickly took advantage of by killing Tagge.
Search for Luke Skywalker
The rebels had began to make a push to defeat the Empire.
While the Rebellion made a drive to defeat the Empire, Vader meanwhile searched for Luke Skywalker.
The Empire attempted to pin down rebel activity, but were unable to stop them from
seizing control
of the
Harbinger
from the grip of the Imperial Navy.
However, the Empire started a counterattack and prevented rebel guerrilla and military desultory raids that had occurred in the aftermath of Yavin.
Further Imperial success came on the mineral planet
Crait
, where the Empire
confronted
the Alliance after an
attack on the Alliance Fleet
as they searched out a possible new rebel base.
The Rebellion embarked on a massive military campaign to liberate hundreds of worlds under Imperial control by pushing into the heavily populated Mid Rim. With thousands of starships, hundreds of battle groups and dozens of worlds involved in the operation, it was initially met with stunning success as Imperial forces, unprepared for such a large-scale operation and shattered from the recent shake-ups in the Imperial hierarchy, fell back from world to world, allowing the Rebellion to press further into Imperial space. Taking the factory-deserts of
Phorsa Gedd
and the
Ducal Palace
of
Bamayar
, the Rebellion's advance gradually slowed as Imperial resistance stiffened. Eighteen months into the operation, fearing to overextend the fleet and occupied with the consolidation of worlds now under Rebel control,
High Command
ordered the defense of occupied territories, and shortly thereafter the slow withdrawal of Alliance military resources back towards the Outer Rim.
Search for the Rebel Alliance
Chasing leads
"
Listen, they got through debriefing that
spy
. I—I thought you'd like to
know
. He says someone sabotaged the Empire's
computers
. Made a real mess of their search for
us
. They're keeping it quiet, but— he says he heard it from a comms jockey on the
Executor
. They put out an arrest warrant for the
culprit
. Human woman. Archaeotech expertise. Traveling with two dangerous droids. It's set them back a couple
weeks
, he says. Long enough to get the
shield up
, huh? Maybe even get those
evac plans
up to speed. I always
knew
she was good‐on the inside.
"
"[To Vulaada Klam and Korin Aphra]
Should we tell him she also saved the Emperor's life?
"
―Luke Skywalker and Magna Tolvan
While the loss of both Tarkin and the Death Star itself were significant, Imperial resolve toward putting down the rebellion only increased. For the next three and a half years, Imperial forces under the direct command of Darth Vader relentlessly pursued the Alliance. While the hunt was personal for Vader, having learned that the young rebel Skywalker was actually his son, the Imperial Military nevertheless scoured the galaxy with
Imperial probe droids
under the name
Project Swarm
. The operation also made use of a team of archaeological consultants due to the Rebel Alliance's prior uses of ancient structures as bases, with Vader's old contact Doctor Chelli Aphra assigned as part of the group;
while her role in preventing the
plot to assassinate Emperor Palpatine
afforded her a degree of protection from Vader,
she believed the Sith Lord was keeping her close and waiting
for any good excuse
to silence his old loose end.
Imperial forces also picked up Aphra and Vader's old
assassin droids
during a sweep of the
Ring of Kafrene
, installing restraining bolts on both and assigning them as interrogation specialists on the
Executor
.
Doctor Chelli Lona Aphra (left) questioned the usefulness of the archaeological side of Project Swarm, whereas Professor Rupo Ud (center) argued in its favor, secretly seeing it as a way to further general archaeological knowledge.
Under the command of
Major
Yaltza
, who was ultimately executed by Vader for a lack of results, and then General
Maximilian Veers
,
Project Swarm saw thousands of probe droids search the galaxy
while the archaeologists did their work; whereas Aphra questioned the usefulness of their department, Professor
Rupo Ud
pushed the theory the rebels would be using another historical site. In secret, Ud did not care about the Empire or rebels at all and simply saw Project Swarm as a way to allocate major resources towards an archaeological survey. After her pleas to Vader fell on deaf ears, Aphra decided to devote herself to finding the rebel base, thereby securing Palpatine's favor and keeping herself out of Vader's grasp forever. After a probe droid was shot down over
Ash Moon 1
, Veers led a team to the surface to discover only a group of
Central Isopter
pilgrims, who he ordered be used as target practice, while Ud led the study of the Isopter temple. Intending to take control of the archaeological team, Aphra tricked Ud into falling into a trap and left her ward
Vulaada Klam
behind,
intending to keep the young girl out of her dangerous life.
The only update of interest to Veers came when a masked individual—who carried rebel rations and claimed to know Jedi
mind tricks
—was taken captive and brought to the
Executor
, where he was unmasked and revealed to be the now-Supervisor Aphra's father,
Korin
.
At the urging of his daughter and due to his bias against the Rebel Alliance due to its habit of ruining ancient sites, Korin revealed he had encountered a rebel cell on
Asteroid Helix 13-v
, where the two Aphras set to work—with Korin coming to see some benefits to the Empire's existence if it was directed towards archaeology—and Vader investigated a presence in the Force, leading him to an altar people had prayed to over the years. The altar made Vader experience visions of his past, but he destroyed it and soon departed, ignoring Korin's pleas to spare the historical site after he ordered bombers annihilate the temple. Although Vader's order to withdraw pulled the Empire off the asteroid before a full sweep could be conducted, with Vader claiming he did so because the rebels had already left, the Aphras had found evidence the rebels had departed for a cold location.
En route to the
Executor
, the
Lambda
-class T-4a shuttle carrying both Aphras and BT-1 was attacked by
the rebel starship
Unnamed
under Aphra's former lover
Magna Tolvan
, herself a former Imperial
who predicted how the stormtroopers aboard would react and incapacitated all Imperials aboard.
As the Imperials and Korin were taken captive, Aphra avoided the rebels and extracted the location of their new base—
Echo Base
on the planet
Hoth
—from Tolvan's
electro-tattoos
after sleeping with her. She also contacted BT-1 and, after giving the droid permission to kill anyone but her father, ensured her unconscious father was safely deposited back on their Lambda, which she launched with coordinates for Ash Moon I so he could meet up with Klam. Tolvan and the
Unnamed
followed close behind,
ensuring that Aphra's loved ones could meet each other and become a group of their own.
Uniting with Tolvan, Korin—who abandoned his
anti-rebel ideals
—and Klam joined the rebellion and lived in Echo Base.
Death Squadron over the planet Tython during the hunt for Echo Base
Rather than fulfill her previous idea of giving Echo Base's location to the Empire,
Aphra led Vader and a group of Imperial forces under Colonel
Bryce
to the planet
Tython
, where she freed 0-0-0 and BT-1 from their restraining bolts. With both droids cutting through many of Bryce's troops, Aphra led Vader to the
Martyrium of Frozen Tears
, where he was overpowered by his past regrets and severely damaged by a barrage from BT-1. Still keeping her distance and knowing she would be unable to kill the Dark Lord, Aphra instead hacked into Vader's suit from a distance and contacted the
Executor
, where she reached
a
comms jockey
she tricked into altering and outright deleting much of the data collected by Project Swarm: while she knew Vader would soon find the rebel base, she fled Tython with the hope she had delayed his efforts for long enough that the rebels could set up defenses and
escape plans, thereby keeping her loved ones safe. The Empire put out a warrant for Aphra,
who escaped Tython by stealing a
TIE/rp Reaper attack landers
and dropped 0-0-0 and BT-1 off on the planet
Birukay
, where they could stay off the Empire's radar, although both grew bored from a lack of people to kill.
Aphra's actions heavily set back the Empire's hunt for the rebellion by,
according to Aphra's
and the Empire's own estimates, several weeks
as it would need to untangle the mess of false positives, deleted information, and altered records she left behind.
The Empire tried to bury news of Aphra's interference, but the comms jockey would end up telling an Imperial officer named
Thassilio Smeuse
, who was, in secret, a deep-cover agent for the Rebel Alliance. One day, Smeuse and the stormtroopers under his command captured a U-wing and a group of seemingly low-ranking rebels, who were actually baiting the Imperials into an ambush; after Smeuse completed the code-phrase one rebel remarked, Tolvan and
Strike Team Misericorde
ambushed the Imperials and extracted Smeuse. Escaping from three TIE fighters aboard the U-wing, Tolvan and company returned to Echo Base, where Smeuse was debriefed and revealed what Aphra had done.
Battle of Hoth
"
Yes, Lord Vader. I've reached the main power generator. The shield will be down in moments. You may start your landing.
"
―Maximilian Veers, to Darth Vader
By
3 ABY
,
despite having thousands of droids searching the galaxy, Echo Base's location on the
sixth planet
of the
Hoth system
remained unknown to the Galactic Empire. However, that same year,
Imperial probe droid
XJ9-CS14
was dispatched from a Star Destroyer to that planet. Upon the droid's crash into the planet, rebel forces dispatched Han Solo to investigate, and after a brief skirmish, the droid self destructed after having seen a shield generator. However, aboard the
command ship
Executor
, the
flagship
of a
massive Imperial fleet
, not long after,
Firmus Piett
and another Imperial officer reviewed the footage, and promptly informed
Fleet Admiral
Kendal Ozzel
of the lead. Despite Ozzel protests that the lead did not suggest much, Darth Vader arrived to inspect the lead, and after seeing the shield generator for himself, became certain that it was the rebel base and as such ordered the fleet to travel to the Hoth system.
As the Imperial fleet made it's way to the Hoth system, the rebel alliance in turn, fearing their location was exposed, began to evacuate the base. However, upon the fleet's arrival near the Hoth system, Ozzel made a tactical blunder by leaving
hyperspace
too close to the system, alerting the alliance to the presence of the fleet and allowing them to raise their energy shield, forcing an Imperial ground assault rather than an orbital bombardment. The blunder cost Ozzel his life at the hands of Vader and command was promptly shifted to the hands of Firmus Piett
as the Empire began deploying ground forces to the glacial feature known as
Moorsh Moraine
.
The Empire launched a ground attack on the Rebellion on Hoth.
In the subsequent Imperial assault, Imperial ground forces under the command of
General
Maximilian Veers
, utilizing
All Terrain Armored Transport
and
All Terrain Scout Transport
walkers
, destroyed the shield generator for Echo Base, before
Cold weather assault troopers
under the command of Vader entered and overran rebel forces inside Echo Base. During the assault, Solo's ship, the
Millennium Falcon
, narrowly escaped Vader's grasp and managed to make it to space, before the Imperial fleet in orbit attempted to stop the ship. As such, the Falcon entered the
Hoth asteroid field
before Imperial
TIE/ln space superiority starfighters
and
TIE/sa tactical bombers
followed them in, though the
Falcon
eluded the forces due to the high risk involving asteroid fields. With the ship lost, Vader hired several
Bounty hunters
to locate the ship as an alternative solution, despite the private disapproval of some Imperial officers.
Trap on Cloud City
"
Attention. This is Lando Calrissian. The Empire has taken control of the city; I advise everyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive.
"
―Lando Calrissian alerts the residents of Cloud City
One of these bounty hunters,
Boba Fett
, tracked Organa and Solo to
Cloud City
on
Bespin
, enabling Imperial forces to capture them and lay a trap for Luke Skywalker. The trap was eventually sprung, and Skywalker learned of his true relation to Vader, but the Imperial forces escorting Organa and her allies found themselves betrayed and overwhelmed by Cloud City's local authorities. The rebel leaders
escaped
Imperial custody again, but not without cost. Skywalker was maimed in a duel with Vader, while Solo was frozen in
carbonite
and handed over to the bounty hunter. Battered and bruised, the Alliance was once again in flight from pursuing Imperial forces.
The Empire took full control of Cloud City
and Bespin as a whole,
securing a major source of
tibanna
gas in the process
and further shaking the galaxy's balance of power in its favor.
Around the same time as the takeover of Cloud City, the Empire focused on the ice moon
Madurs
to secure access to its
carnium
supply. Initially assuming and told the Empire was interested in the moon's art, much to his confusion,
Prime Minister
Dreand Yens
was told by Imperial ambassador and
Senior Commander
Alecia Beck
to prepare for an art expo as a distraction: as the Empire laid the groundwork for its mining operation, Yens and his people were building up a small city of ice guesthouses at Beck's urging. All the while, an Imperial space station in orbit scouted out where on Madurs would be the best spot to mine, Finally, the Empire made its intentions clear in the next phase of negotiations and offered far less than what the carnium was worth. After Yens's rejection, the space station landed on the moon—destroying what became known as the "
old city
" in the process—to begin extracting the resource by force. An
underground resistance network
struck against the operation but failed to stop the mining, which began to pollute and threaten the very structure of the moon the further it went on. Despite his hate of the Empire's operations, Yens remained as Prime Minister but was effectively a puppet of Beck. With the way it protruded up from the frozen ground, the station became known as the
black tower
.
Following the disastrous Battle of Hoth, the Alliance Fleet was scattered across the galaxy, and the absence of clear orders and the condition of Alliance High Command put the movement into its most critical stage in the war effort. With Imperial forces required to maintain the Mid Rim border and combat active war zones, vast numbers of Imperial forces from the
Core Worlds
were deployed to finally quash the Rebellion in the Outer Rim. This redeployment, however, left the Core's defenses enervated if only by a slight margin. Knowing the Empire's reliance on the Imperial shipyards at
Kuat
and their vital importance in planetary containment and fast infantry deployment, the Rebel Sixty-First Mobile Infantry launched
Operation Ringbreaker
, an initiative designed to destroy the Empire's orbital facilities at Kuat. Ultimately, the plan faltered and ended on
Sullust
owing to logistical concerns.
Preparation for the end
"
Through sheer stupid luck, the rebels managed to destroy the first Death Star. By rebuilding the Death Star, and using it
as many times as necessary
to restore order, we prove that their luck only goes so far. We prove that we are the only galactic authority and always will be.
"
―
Nash Windrider
In the wake of the Rebellion's catastrophic loss at Hoth, the Rebel Fleet split into small fragments across the galaxy in an attempt to avoid another propaganda victory for the Empire, further extending the Imperial fleet in an effort to engage them. Despite its previous advantages following the Battle of Yavin, the Rebellion was sitting on a knife's edge after learning of Darth Sidious constructing another battle station. Following the loss of the first Death Star, the Emperor made clear his determination to create another planet-shattering space station, this time more powerful than the first.
The
Schism Imperial
erupted in the wake of the
scourge of the droids
.
Utilizing S-thread boosters to carve a
secret hyperspace lane
through the Outer Rim, the Emperor planned to destroy the rebels in a doomed engagement over the forest moon of
Endor
, construction site of the Death Star II, which, unbeknownst to the rebels, had a fully operational
superlaser
. Following the presumed destruction of a sizable portion of the Alliance's military capabilities, the Emperor planned to deploy some of the largest invasion fleets seen in centuries to blockade the known rebel strongholds of
Mon Cala
and
Chandrila
until the Death Star could destroy them, eliminating any hope of a successful galactic resistance and thus permanently ending the Alliance to Restore the Republic through terror and intimidation.
Leaking secrets
With the Alliance Fleet assembling over Sullust, the Emperor decided to proactively approach the Rebel problem. Rather than guard the station's secrets, as with the first Death Star, Sidious leaked just enough information to bait the Alliance into striking at the station before it was completed—including the fact that he would be overseeing the final stages of the station's construction personally.
After the
Bothan Spynet
transmitted intelligence regarding the Empire's new and improved Death Star to Alliance High Command, an emergency summit was held on the remote trade world of
Zastiga
, far from the Galactic Core.
There, Rebellion leaders and generals were informed of the construction of the second Death Star located over Endor which, they knew, had to be destroyed before it became operational. Needing to buy time for the scattered fleet to assemble over Sullust, Princess Leia Organa devised a strategy—
Operation Yellow Moon
—to divert Imperial attention to her instead of the upcoming mission to Endor. Ultimately, with the success of Yellow Moon, the Rebel Alliance gained valuable time for its now-consolidated fleet to finally be able to strike at an incomplete Death Star.
Unknown to the Rebels, large portions of the Imperial Starfleet had already massed in the
Hudalla system
, while Imperial engineers had ensured that the new Death Star's main weapon was fully operational. Eventually, Imperial Military command had discreetly moved the gathered warships to a staging point on the far side of Endor's moon, where the Death Star was orbiting. Simultaneously, a legion of Imperial troops was deployed on the surface to stop any attempt at sabotaging the station's ground-based
SLD-26 planetary shield generator
, which neutralized any attempt at directly assaulting the station.
Battle of Endor
The Alliance strike team is captured by the Emperor's troops.
Imperial intelligence reports indicated that Sidious' trap was indeed well underway when it was discovered that the Rebel fleet was massing at Sullust, as a staging ground for their strike at Endor. Per the Emperor's design and command, Imperial Military authorities were ordered to ignore the buildup so that the Rebels would commit their entire force to a doomed attack. When the Alliance fleet arrived en masse, the Emperor's trap was sprung. The Rebel ground forces had taken the bait and been captured, allowing the Death Star's shield to remain active, while the Imperial fleet moved into position to trap the Rebels. With the Alliance Fleet trapped between the bulk of the Imperial fleet and a shielded, fully operational Death Star, victory for the Empire seemed assured.
On the surface of Endor, the tables were turned on the Imperial forces when they were unexpectedly attacked by the planet's indigenous
Ewok
population, who had allied themselves with the Rebels, giving the Alliance ground forces a free hand to destroy the Death Star's shield generator. With the shield down, Alliance starfighters were able to launch an assault on the Imperial station's reactor core.
The Rebel fleet and the Imperial fleet engage each other.
Meanwhile, aboard the station, a blow of an entirely different kind was struck against the Empire. The Emperor tried to replace Vader with a captive Luke Skywalker, the latter now being a Jedi, but Luke convinced Darth Vader to turn on his master. Vader—once again Anakin Skywalker—seized the Imperial head of state and hurled him down a shaft to his assumed death. Soon after, the Rebel starfighters destroyed the Death Star's reactor core. The station was destroyed—like its predecessor, lost with all hands. Due to the injuries he sustained in the process of overthrowing the Emperor, the redeemed Anakin died shortly after, but not before making peace with Luke.
With the apparent loss of both the Emperor and his right-hand man, Vader, the destruction of the Death Star, and significant losses inflicted on the Imperial fleet, the Imperial remnants withdrew to the
Annaj system
.
The Empire had suffered a decisive defeat.
Fragmentation of the Order
"
They have one role. That role is to protect the Imperator. If an Empire cannot protect its Emperor then that Empire must be deemed a failure. It collapses not only because its central figure is gone, but because it must not be allowed to remain!
"
―Emperor Palpatine explains the contingency to Gallius Rax by comparing the Galactic Empire to Shah-tezh
Shattered Empire
"
In one battle, we lost our Emperor and gained a hundred warring factions.
"
―Rella Sol
The Rebel assault against the Imperial outpost on Endor, the day after the Death Star II's destruction.
With the destruction of the Death Star and death of the Order's totalitarian ruler, many worlds across the galaxy began to celebrate the Empire's defeat over Endor with the incorrect notion that the war was over
and
rise up
against the regime.
Despite being at the heart of the Empire, the Imperial Center would also see tumultuous festivities by its populace, eventually leading to a
riot
breaking out in
Monument Plaza
, which further coalesced into a full-scale
civil war
.
A
rally
was held on Naboo
while
parades
and other celebrations were held on Tatooine, which saw its Imperial occupiers withdraw.
The recent death of Jabba the Hutt,
combined with the Imperial withdraw, did create a power vacuum on Tatooine that groups like the
Mining Collective
could take advantage of, however.
Meanwhile, the Empire rushed to reassert its power. One particular tactic the Empire would focus on was trying to keep control over resources. To that end, the Empire continued its secret mining project on Madurs. The Rebel Alliance also suspected Imperial holdouts would dig into the Outer Rim, thereby drawing out the war. Beyond fearing covert attacks on Alliance-allied star systems, with the number of pro-Alliance worlds growing in the wake of Palpatine's death, and the battles that were to be waged in the Outer Rim, the Alliance feared the Empire would act in the shadows to destabilize the bedrock upon which the New Republic would be formed: assassinations, starvation, and control over resources like fuel, such as Tibanna gas, and food were all tactics the Alliance suspected would be used by the Empire in the coming weeks.
The Galactic Empire that once stood united under Palpatine fractured and divided without a clear leader as various candidates squabbled and fought for the throne.
Owing to the lack of a clear system of succession following the Emperor's death, chaos gripped the galaxy as former Imperial expansionism stalled. Members of the
Imperial Council
and various other military warlords attempted to grab what territories they could, while tailored propaganda messages often contradicted one another. Some refused to legitimize the New Republic, and thus banned referring to it by name. Others portrayed it as a monstrous terrorist organization, swallowing up Imperial worlds for plunder and conquest, while still others refused to even acknowledge the Emperor's death for months.
The Empire was ripped apart from within as several of its commanders fought one another for power, leadership, and control, rendering the regime a collection of squabbling factions: with the Empire weak, it was no match against the united forces of the New Republic. The chaos that ensued in the Empire made people wonder if the decisions made by the Emperor over the years were the best for the Galactic Empire. Imperial pilot
Rella Sol
, for example, the child of former Imperial Senators, believed that if the
Imperial Senate
had not been dissolved, order would have been maintained after Endor.
An Imperial loyalist,
Governor Adelhard, who was in charge of the Anoat sector, attempted to downplay the Empire's defeat over Endor and cover up the Emperor's death
in the days after the Battle of Endor.
Shutting down all travel and communications into and out of the Anoat sector, Adelhard established the
Iron Blockade
and formed his own
remnant faction
. Citizens who dared to fight back and speak of so-called rumors of the Empire's defeat were hunted and eliminated by Commander
Bragh
and his
Purge Troopers
.
By keeping control over the Anoat sector, the Empire also kept control over a massive supplier of the galaxy's Tibanna gas, thereby keeping a great deal of control over fuel.
While some such as Grand Moff
Lozen Tolruck
of
Imperial territory G5-623
on Kashyyyk suggested that the Emperor had escaped the Death Star II through miraculous means, others claimed the even wilder notion that the Emperor was still leading the Empire from beyond the grave.
While Solo thought such a lie was easy to disprove, such a tactic was possible because Palpatine had always ruled from the shadows, away from the public eye.
During Solo and Organa's honeymoon, they discovered the Empire's carnium mining operation on Madurs and
fought against it
with the help of the local resistance. The battle ended with the destruction of the "black tower" and the capture of Beck, who fled with other high-ranking officers on Madurs as the resistance launched its final attack. The out-of-character move from Beck led Organa to suspect the New Republic had a new enemy at play, either a figure using the rumors of Palpatine's survival to their advantage or an heir to the Empire with Palpatine's level of power. Fortunately for Madurs, the New Republic embarked on an effort to restore the world after the damage caused by the Empire's mining.
Operation: Cinder
"
Operation: Cinder is to begin at once. Resistance. Rebellion. Defiance. These are concepts that cannot be allowed to persist. You are but one of many tools by which these ideas shall be burned away.
"
―Darth Sidious' posthumous orders
The Alliance assaults Imperial positions on Sterdic IV.
With the Empire fragmented, the Rebel Alliance embarked on numerous campaigns such as the
Beltire Liberation
and the
Battle of Cawa City
to capitalize on its stunning success over Endor, resulting in numerous Imperial defeats. Twenty days after Endor, the posthumous contingency plan of the late Emperor known as
Operation: Cinder
was delivered to numerous Imperial captains by
messenger droids
as the first act in Palpatine's
Contingency
.
The operation consisted of coordinated attacks on strategic worlds affiliated with the Rebellion, which the Emperor considered a final act of revenge against his enemies,
and worlds that had been loyal to him,
as revenge for the Empire's failure to protect him.
In addition to his homeworld of Naboo,
Burnin Konn
,
Candovant
,
Abednedo
, and
Commenor
were all targeted for destruction through the use of
climate disruption arrays
. Utilizing
N-1 starfighters
dating thirty-six years earlier to the Battle of Naboo, the Alliance destroyed the satellites with the aid of an
MC80 Star Cruiser
and the Alliance Fleet.
Despite the Order's defeat over Naboo, the Empire still attempted the operation on numerous worlds in the three months following the Battle of Endor.
After the Battle of Endor, illicit holovids of the Emperor's defeat over Endor and rebel propaganda detailing the liberation of worlds such as Naboo disseminated throughout the galaxy, with many risking arrest and execution for spreading what the Empire deemed lies. However, the increasing view that the Empire was weakened, reinforced by the insistence of authorities claiming otherwise, prompted thousands of planets to join the Alliance, while Imperial Military defections steadily increased. In order to counter the reports of the Emperor's demise, a proxy actor was installed in his place, but some citizens noticed slight differences in the facsimile. Eventually, the truth of the Emperor's demise became known to the general citizenry. Declarations of a new Emperor were announced almost every day, but none were able to consolidate any substantial power. Former aide to Darth Sidious since the Clone Wars, Grand Vizier Mas Amedda attempted to keep the Empire together while splinter fleets and other Imperial officials fought each other to support the various claimants to the throne.
Birth of the New Republic
"
This is Grand Admiral Rae Sloane, commander of the Imperial Navy and de facto leader of the Galactic Empire. The Empire remains vigilant in combating the anarchist criminal government calling itself the New Republic. The dream of a safe, sane, and unified galaxy did not die with the glorious Emperor Palpatine. The Galactic Empire continues to march forward, tirelessly diligent in its quest to return order and stability where none before existed. Meanwhile, the New Republic continues its own mission to destroy what we have built together. Crime has returned to the galaxy tenfold as the underworld dynasties have regained dominance over worlds once kept free of their toxic influences by the Empire. Supply lines have been cut, and many worlds are now starving without adequate food. The corrosive influence of the New Republic has caused a seemingly insurmountable loss of jobs, income, and even lives. But fear not. The Empire remains, as sure as a mountain, as certain as the stars across all the systems. We will defeat the insurgency. We will make this false government pay for its crimes against you. Even now we are building new ships, new bases, and founding new technologies to keep you safe. The Empire is coming. We will deliver you from harm. And we will strike back against our enemies. Remain calm. remain loyal. With true hearts, victory for us—and for the whole galaxy—will soon be at hand.
"
―Rae Sloane
The continuing fall of the Empire allowed the Rebel Alliance to reorganize into a true government, the New Republic.
Eventually, the Galactic Empire had to contend with the
New Republic
, a rival galactic government formed in the wake of the Rebel Alliance's victory at Endor. Suffering a string of defeats against the Republic including the loss of
Sevarcos
and
Malastare
, along with a failed attempt to restart the former Separatist droid foundries on Geonosis, the Empire gradually began to crumble. Self-appointed Grand Moff
Valco Pandion
and other military leaders began to jockey for power, while corrupt sector governors accepted payments for the Republic's allocation of Imperial ships or sued for peace at the earliest convenience.
The captains of two of the Empire's thirteen
Executor
-class Star Dreadnoughts even surrendered to the New Republic.
With most of the Empire's veteran troops killed on the second Death Star or Vader's command ship
Executor
, military paucity and tactical clumsiness soon hampered the Empire's efforts at a concerted strike against the Republic. The Imperial Military suffered numerous losses of warships and troops, and expended more ordnance than it could produce fighting Republic forces. This ultimately led to a supply deficit forcing
Imperial
-class Star Destroyers to make do with an inadequate supply of TIE/LN starfighters and resulted in both the Imperial Navy and Imperial Army utilizing undertrained personnel pulled early from the numerous Imperial academies. Consequently, many planets were either captured by or seceded to the New Republic. The Empire retreated to fallback positions on worlds such as
Naalol
, forestalling its slow push toward the Core Worlds. Despite these efforts, the Republic had already established its capital on Chandrila, a planet located within the Core.
Conference on Akiva
"
…This meeting is to decide the fate of the Empire with the input of several advisers, not just one. If I wanted to take the
Ravager
and seize control, I could make that attempt and I might even manage it. But I'd rather not make the same mistakes as in the past.
"
―Rae Sloane, to
Valco Pandion
Despite the lack of a clear chain of command, old loyalists and a common fear of the rising Rebellion kept a vague semblance of unity between the surviving Imperial forces. Existing on a knife's edge, many officers wondered when someone of prominence would break away from commonality and begin to overtly act against the greater body, ushering in chaos and anarchy. To avoid this, the surviving Imperial leaders and their military forces converged on the Outer Rim planet of
Akiva
in an attempt to evade New Republic detection and stabilize the remaining factions of the Empire in the months following Endor, with various portions of the Outer Rim still occupied by Imperial forces. During the Akiva summit, various Imperial delegates discussed the future of the Empire in the aptly named
Imperial Future Council
.
Amid the conference, the various Imperial leaders were divided over how the Empire should deal with their newfound situation, and whether or not it would be wise to continue the war or enter into a state of cold war. Additionally, the continued funding of the Imperial Military was hotly disputed, with some arguing that plundering the InterGalactic Banking Clan and other monetary bodies would plunge the galaxy into an economic depression. The notion of abandoning the Empire's dark-side devotion was even discussed, while
Imperial Advisor
Yupe Tashu
—a longtime admirer of Darth Sidious and dark-side cultist—suggested sending the Imperial remnants to the outskirts of the galaxy to search for the source of the dark side. With the more pressing objective to organize and thus strike out against the New Republic before it could grow any stronger, the delegates soon began discussing who should lead the Empire as the new Galactic Emperor.
Rebellion on Akiva
"
This is how it must be. The Empire became this…ugly, inelegant machine. Crude and inefficient. We needed to be broken into pieces. We needed to get rid of those who want to see that old machine churning ineluctably forward. It's time for something better. Something new. An Empire worthy of the galaxy it will rule.
"
―Gallius Rax
Before any real progress could be made, Akiva was ultimately
liberated
after a New Republic fleet arrived, forcing the Imperials to scatter once more and resulting in Akiva being the first Outer Rim planet to formally join the New Republic. In reality, Imperial
Fleet Admiral
Gallius Rax
, a warlord who controlled one of the larger fragments of the fallen Empire.
The man who became Gallius Rax was an orphan boy called "Galli" who had stowed aboard Palpatine's luxury yacht
Imperialis
roughly three decades before the end of the Galactic Civil War.
Seeing potential in the boy, Palpatine tasked him with guarding an excavation site in the
Valley of the Eremite
which became the
Jakku Observatory
. After ten years of service, Palpatine inducted Rax into the Empire,
using his power and influence to aid Rax's career advancement in the Imperial Navy.
By
5 ABY
,
Rax had attained the rank of Fleet Admiral.
With the loss of Akiva and the Galactic Empire's territorial possessions rapidly shrinking, Rax became an official advisor to Grand Admiral
Rae Sloane
. While Sloane was the public leader of the Empire in the
Vulpinus Nebula
, its true ruler was Rax who controlled the fleet through Sloane. Additionally, Rax secretly commanded the Imperial remnants in the
Almagest
, the
Recluse's Nebula
, the
Queluhan Nebula
, the
Ro-Loo Triangle
, and the
Inamorata
.
As part of the Contingency, Rax eliminated his Imperial rivals by leaking intelligence to the New Republic while posing as "the Operator." With Sloane's help, Rax had engineered the downfall of the
Imperial Future Council
's
emergency summit on Akiva
.
Roughly two months after Akiva fell to the New Republic, numerous systems left the Empire or waged their own resistance movements, declared their independence, and established their own fiefdoms or joined the New Republic.
In that time, Sullust had also been
liberated
from Imperial control. In that same time period,
Imperial forces launched three
invasions
of the planet Naboo, which holdout forces hoped to claim due to its significance as Palpatine's homeworld. However, all three attacks were repelled by the New Republic, which even received help from Imperial defectors.
Meanwhile, criminal syndicates flourished in the current atmosphere of conflict, especially the reptilian
pirate
Eleodie Maracavanya
, who had captured the Super Star Destroyer
Annihilator
and used it to forge zher own criminal empire. Several Moffs and governors rebelled against the Empire as more people grew uncertain about what the Empire stood for. Agencies, personnel, and whole planetary systems started to drift apart, each adopting different tactics and methods for combating the New Republic, and each other.
Desperate times
"
You
…
you're serious. You want me to surrender
…
the entire Galactic Empire?
"
"
That's right.
"
"
I don't
…"
"
You don't have the power, do you?
"
"
I
…"
"
So, get it back. And then bring a treaty to our door.
"
―Mas Amedda and Leia Organa
Grand Vizier Mas Amedda was acting as Emperor after Palpatine's death but in reality was nothing more than a proxy Emperor who held little real influence beyond the throneworld of Coruscant with his reign being met with whole sectors of Coruscant started to revolt and was entrenched in government districts. Rax refused to allow Sloane to send reinforcements to Amedda as the throneworld had no place in his vision of a renewed Empire. Later he met with Chancellor Mon Mothma and Senator Leia Organa, who refused his surrender during a meeting on
Velusia
and demanded he instead find a way to gain full control of the Galactic Empire and ordering him to work towards signing a treaty of surrender to clear his name.
Upon his return to Coruscant, Amedda considered
suicide
by jumping off of one of the Imperial Palace's balconies. However, he changed his mind after meeting Sloane. After Sloane inquired about the identity of Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax, Amedda decided to strike an alliance with her. In return for assisting her investigation into Rax's background, Amedda agreed to align with Sloane. Sloane believed in the New Order that developed after the Clone Wars as opposed to Rax, who wished for a renewed Empire ruled by the dark side as it was under Darth Sidious. Following their agreement, Amedda revealed the droids that contained the information she sought were aboard the wreckage of the
Imperialis
on the junk moon
Quantxi
.
As the war grew more desperate, TIE fighter pilots even began suicide attacks on entrenched Republic positions, and various commanders executed wholesale massacres of native populations. The HoloNet, now free of Imperial censorship, brought such atrocities to the public spotlight. Other Imperial officials went AWOL and holed up in distant, hyper-secure outposts to avoid the
New Republic Tribunal
and its sentencing of Imperial war criminals. Additionally, the Emperor's Super Star Destroyer, the
Eclipse
, had disappeared from the galaxy.
Empire's End
Rax's game
"
…I'm forming a Shadow Council to govern the Empire from behind the scenes. Only the finest of our kind: the first and highest order of Imperial minds…
"
―Gallius Rax
Despite the post-Endor Rebel Alliance's fears that the Empire would dig into the Outer Rim,
the Empire was largely defeated in the region by the time Rax called for a meeting of select Imperials in the
Vulpinus Nebula
. The
Exterior
under Grand Moff
Randd
remained the only Outer Rim sector that could truly be described as under the Empire's control. However, while the Empire appeared to be receding as the New Republic grew in size, Rax consolidated more and more systems to his cause
—a faction of Imperials identified as the loyalists
—after staging the Imperial Future Council to eliminate his rivals. A protégé of the late Emperor, Rax saw the Empire of old as weak, corrupt, and overripe. To him, by allowing the New Republic to gain ground, he not only eliminated potential competition but consolidated the leftover pieces of the Order.
With the shipyards of Kuat,
Xa Fel
,
Anadeen
, and
Turco Prime
already lost or contested, Rax planned to use the Empire's last foothold in the Outer Rim as a "strangling cord" to tie around the New Republic. While the old Empire relied on third-party corporations to produce its military hardware, Rax had nationalized all aspects of the production chain to be solely Imperial. To conclude his plan, Rax founded the
Shadow Council
in the Vulpinus Nebula after rescuing the final member of the council,
Brendol Hux
, from
Arkanis
. This "Shadow Council" was to serve as a secret advisory board composed of the "best and brightest," with the ultimate motive of secretly guiding the Empire into a new golden age.
Crisis on Chandrila
"
Rax is the way forward. The Empire must be willing to change. We must be willing to do anything to show the galaxy what it is to defy us.
"
―Adea Rite
Roughly three months after the Battle of Akiva, Rax sent Rae Sloane on a mission to the New Republic's capital with the overtures of signing a peace treaty who reassured her that her mission to Chandrila would cement her role as Emperor. The signing coincided with the New Republic's celebration of
Liberation Day
, a holiday celebrating the release of captives from the Imperial prison
Ashmead's Lock
on Kashyyyk, with many of the captives having been held in suspended animation since the days of the early Rebellion. In reality, the survivors were a part of an elaborate
assassination scheme
by Rax, executed by his lackey,
Windom Traducier
—an undercover Imperial operative posing as a Senate Guard—by utilizing
inhibitor chips
that had been installed within the survivors' brains. As the New Republic officials shepherded the liberated prisoners and their families onto a stage, Rax ordered Grand Moff
Randd
to prepare the Imperial fleets to travel to a series of coordinates, which turned out to be the planet
Jakku
. Rax also convened a meeting of the Shadow Council.
The survivors attacked and fired on the crowd after the chips' activation by Traducier, with the survivors targeting Chancellor Mon Mothma and various members of the Republic military during a dedication speech to their rescue. Watching the carnage from the balcony, Sloane realized that this terror attack was the "attack" Rax had foreshadowed to her. Already disagreeing on Rax's methods for administering the Empire, Rae announced her intention to confront Rax aboard the
Ravager
to her aide,
Adea Rite
, a secret supporter of Rax. As a result, Rite attempted to assassinate Sloane, but she escaped off-world. Traducier freed Tashu from the Republic and told him that he still served the late Emperor Sheev Palpatine even after Rax had given himself the title of Emperor. The attacks demoralized the New Republic but failed to turn the tide of the war against the Empire, which lost Kashyyyk following an
uprising
led by Han Solo and Chewbacca.
The Contingency
"
If the vast and powerful forces I had gathered could not perform their sworn duty and protect their own Emperor, they did not deserve to lay claim to this galaxy in my absence. For their failures, I would see them burn. And the galaxy along with them.
"
―Darth Sidious
Claiming that Sloane had been captured during the attack on Chandrila, Gallius Rax seized power as the self-styled
Counselor to the Empire
. When Borrum asked why they were traveling to the barren world of Jakku, Rax responded that he wanted to "test" the mettle of his new armada above the planet.
In secret, Rax planned to eliminate the other Council members with the exception of Brendol Hux as part of the Emperor's posthumous
Contingency
.
Unbeknownst to the Empire, its destruction had been planned by the Emperor who did not believe that the Empire should continue after his demise. He also deemed the Empire's downfall as a necessary outcome for the creation of a new order that would rise in its place.
Determined to see his plans realized, Sidious entrusted Rax with the task of executing the Contingency and ensuring its success.
Meanwhile, Sloane joined forces with the former rebel
Brentin Lore Wexley
to hunt down and kill Rax. While Sloane had received information from the bounty hunter
Mercurial Swift
that he had discovered that Rax had come from Jakku, the two traveled to the desert planet. After landing, Brentin and Rae visited a bar owned by
Corwin Ballast
in an attempt to find information about Rax. Ballast yielded no information, but the pair soon got their answer when they witnessed Rax's Super Star Destroyer
Ravager
exiting hyperspace with his massive Imperial armada. The Emperor had returned home.
Build-up to Jakku
Assorted formations and forces arrive
"
Soon, the remnants of my armada were united in one last battle above the planet Jakku, unaware that they were being sacrificed as penance for their negligence. With the Empire erased from existence, something new could rise in its place. And from beyond the grave, I would control its every move…
"
―Darth Sidious
The
Imperial
-class Star Destroyer
Inflictor
crashes onto the surface of Jakku.
With the support of the Shadow Council, which included Grand Moff
Randd
, General
Hodnar Borrum
, the
propagandist
Ferric Obdur
, and the former Commandant Brendol Hux, Counselor Gallius Rax led the Imperial
loyalist
forces to his homeworld of
Jakku
. These forces consisted of a fleet of Imperial Star Destroyers as well as Rax's flagship, the
Ravager
, purportedly the last remaining Super Star Destroyer in the Imperial Navy.
Admiral
Garrick Versio
also joined the Imperial loyalists on Jakku, adding his Star Destroyer, the
Eviscerator
, to Rax's fleet.
The fleet also possessed
Interdictor
vessels,
Immobilizer 418 cruisers
,
Lambda
-class shuttles,
TIE line starfighters,
TIE bombers
and interceptors,
TIE strikers
,
Twenty-gun raiders
,
and a
TIE Defender
.
Other loyalist units included the
204th Imperial Fighter Wing
, which was not actually based on Jakku to instead carry out a second Operation Cinder against rogue Imperials,
the
Hellhound attack force
,
and
Omega Flight Group
.
Though united in a final stand against the New Republic, the remnants of the Imperial forces were unaware that they were to be sacrificed as "penance for their negligence," as the Emperor believed that they had failed in their duty to protect him.
The infantry comprised standard stormtroopers along with the requisite specialist troops such as
Demolition Troopers
,
Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers
,
Imperial officers,
jumptroopers
,
riot control stormtroopers
, scout troopers,
Imperial shock troopers
,
sandtroopers
,
and at least one member of the Emperor's Royal Guard.
These ground forces were supported by several types of military vehicles including
All Terrain Armored Transports
,
All Terrain Scout Transports,
and a
K79-H20 Imperial Troop Transport
.
Imperial forces, including the stormtrooper
TK-603
, stationed at the
Rothana Imperial Shipyards
abandoned the station to head to Jakku, leaving with every operational ship in the base. Any ship not ready for battle, including Tarkin's old flagship the
Carrion Spike
, was left behind under the guard of the auto-security and droids.
Rax established the
main Imperial base
beyond the
Goazon Badlands
and the
Sinking Fields
; the base housed a stormtrooper garrison and a large number of walkers.
Other known Imperial facilities included an
Imperial research base
,
the Jakku Observatory, and a remote
Kesium gas
rig. Unknown to the Shadow Council, the Jakku Observatory was central to the late Emperor Palpatine's Contingency plan to destroy the Empire in the event of his death. The Observatory contained computer-generated maps of the Unknown Regions and was built on top of a borehole that led to the planet's core. Rax planned to detonate the core in order to destroy Jakku along with much of the Empire and the
New Republic Defense Fleet
. Then he intended to lead a select group of Imperials whom he deemed worthy of joining him in the Unknown Regions to rebuild the Empire. Rax's forces included a contingent of
child soldiers
who were recruited from local orphans.
Mental toll of Jakku
In public, Counselor Rax claimed that he had brought the Empire to Jakku in order to toughen and harden them for their final showdown against the New Republic. Rax instituted a brutal training regime which encouraged savagery and violence among the Empire's soldiers and officers. In training sessions, officers egged their men to maul each other. Dissenters like
RK-242
who questioned what the Empire was doing on Jakku were brutalized by their comrades for questioning Rax's agenda. The stormtroopers stationed on Jakku degenerated into armed thugs who developed an unkempt appearance due to the harsh, arid climate.
The Galactic Empire made its final stand against the New Republic on Jakku, the homeworld of Gallius Rax.
For months, the Empire's loyalist forces waited for the New Republic to launch its attack. The prolonged state of alert began to take a toll on the Imperial forces based on Jakku. While General Borrum expressed concerned that the long wait was beginning to affect the sanity of his men, Grand Moff Randd supported Counselor Rax's harsh regime as a purification process. During that time, Rax also struck a deal with the
Hutt
crime lady
Niima
, who was the leader of a cult. In return for supplying weapons, Niima guarded the path to the Valley of the Eremite and kidnapped local orphans. These orphans were trained by Commandant Hux into Rax's personal guard of child soldiers, which he hoped would become the template of his new Empire in the Unknown Regions. Prior to the New Republic's arrival at Jakku, Rax gave command of the children to
Armitage Hux
, the Commandant's illegitimate son.
Imperial civil war
"
We haven't received word on the status of Fedovoi End, but we can only assume Shadow Wing has come and gone. At last count, Fedovoi End housed half a million troops and their families. It was primarily a military outpost, it's true—but we haven't seen slaughter of this sort since Operation Cinder.
"
"
The Empire is eating its own.
"
"
Yes. The loyalists have gone to war with the breakaway factions—civilians caught in the cross fire be damned.
"
―Hera Syndulla and
New Republic pilot
Chass na Chadic
Colonel Soran Keize, who pursued non-loyalist Imperials for treason
Meanwhile, New Republic forces launched mopping-up operations against Imperial holdouts on Kashyyyk and Cloud City.
The mass withdrawal of loyalist fleets to Jakku also ceded a great deal of territory to the New Republic, which continued to do battle with the opportunists and warlords who stayed behind. As noted by Admiral Ackbar, while the campaign to root out such holdouts would take time, they were isolated without the core strength of the Empire's loyalists. Few of those holdouts posed any kind of major threat to the New Republic, which also moved to crush whatever transport and fleet-building abilities those holdouts had left. Elsewhere in the galaxy, amid the conflict with the New Republic, loyalist Imperial forces turned their guns against the rogue factions in a second Operation: Cinder, effectively creating a whole new war of its own in the opinion of General Syndulla. The loyalist 204th Imperial Fighter Wing carried out punishments operations, such as the
attack on Kortatka
and
Attack on Dybbron III
, during the campaign.
Following the
attack on the
Diamond Tor
, the loyalist 204th Imperial Fighter Wing was deployed against the
Yomo Council
of the planet
Fedovoi End
, where half a million rogue troops and their families resided. The "treasonous actions"—as they were called by the loyalist
Colonel
Soran Keize
, at least—of the Yomo Council included refusing to obey Sloane when she ordered they direct assets into the
D'Aelgoth sector
, not recognizing Amedda's regency over Coruscant, and an alliance with the
Shiortuun Syndicate
. In response to such actions and after Keize granted those disloyal to the Yomo Council a chance to escape, the 204th Imperial Fighter Wing was
dispatched
to Fedovoi End, where TIE fighters bombarded the planetary ice caps until released gases poisoned the entire world, wiping out numerous civilians and soldiers alike. Imperials who took Keize's offer—such as Major
Njock
, who claimed to have always opposed the Yomo Council's treason—would join the 204th or be dispatched to Jakku.
The New Republic discovers Jakku
The Imperial Military marshals on Jakku ahead of the final battle of the Galactic Civil War.
Norra Wexley
and
her team
discovered the Imperial presence on Jakku
after the New Republic's countless probe droids had failed to.
Her son
Temmin Wexley
and the former Imperial
loyalty officer
Sinjir Rath Velus
reported Norra's findings to the New Republic government on Chandrila. In response, Admiral Ackbar dispatched the scouting ship
Oculus
and several probe droids into the
Jakku system
to corroborate Temmin and Sinjir's information. The scouting party found that much of the Imperial fleet had indeed retreated to Jakku and were consolidating in a defensive arrangement. Despite some
political obstruction
in the
Galactic Senate
,
Chancellor
Mon Mothma passed a resolution dispatching the New Republic Starfleet to Jakku.
Rax captured his rival Sloane and the former rebel operative
Brentin Lore Wexley
, who had teamed up with Sloane to stop Rax. After capturing them, Rax gave a test demonstration of his child soldiers. As a symbolic act of his plan to tear down the Empire and start a new regime, Rax ordered his child soldiers to execute a contingent of stormtroopers. Following the demonstration, Rax imprisoned Sloane and Brentin. With the New Republic fleet entering the Jakku, Rax delivered a
rousing speech
claiming that the coming battle would be the Empire's final stand against the New Republic.
Battle of Jakku
Zero Hour
"
This is our zero hour, and I call you now to do your duty by the light of the glorious Galactic Empire. The battle to come is not a fight for Jakku or even a fight for the Empire. It is a fight for all the galaxy.
"
―Gallius Rax
The battle of Jakku was intended to destroy both Imperial Forces and New Republic forces alike
The
Battle of Jakku
commenced a year and four days after the Battle of Endor. With the Empire controlling most of the galaxy's major shipyards, the Republic sought to expand their fleet by capturing Imperial vessels, along with destroying a secret Imperial weapons facility on the planet.
However, Rax secretly plotted for both New Republic and Imperial forces to destroy each other during the battle, and intentional brought enough firepower to allow both forces to wipe each other off the map and restart the game. Simultaneously Grand Moff Ubrik Adelhard assembled his
coaltion
prepared his final revenge against the Empire and New Republic for treating him like a pawn.
As New Republic forces arrived to Jakku, the Imperial Fleet in orbit around Jakku, under the command of Grand Moff Randdid, strategically positioned the fleet's Executor-class Star Dreadnought
Ravager
behind a defensive perimeter of Star Destroyers which would periodically open formation to allow the
Ravager
to bombard the New Republic fleet with
turbolasers
and missiles while forcing the opposing fleet, under the command of Admiral Ackbar, to break the perimeter to reach the dreadnought and the ground. Meanwhile on the surface of Jakku, Imperial ground forces under the command of General Borrum defended Imperial ground facilities from assault by New Republic forces under the command of General Tyben and Lieutenant General Brockway.
The fall of the
Ravager
, considered the symbolic end of the Imperial Era
As the battle progressed, Imperial forces in space managed to hold the line against the New Republic fleet despite it's
Mark One Starhawks
, until a blunder by Captain Groff of the Star Destroyer
Punishment
panicked and rammed his starship into the Starhawk
Amity
, blubndering the Imperial strategy by creating a hole in the Imperial defenses.
As the starhawks began to break through the Imperial wall and entered a delicate situation for both parties, Adelhard arrived to the battle aboard his flagship
Scepter
and announced that he had arrived to destroy both sides to both factions as his ship were supposed to open fire. However, Adelhard was betrayed by the
Spice Runners of Kijimi
in his moment of victory, allowing the fighting between New Republic and Imperial forces to continue as his flagship was destroyed.
With the Imperial space formation now in chaos, at the urging of Admiral Ackbar, the severely damaged Starhawk
Concord
took advantage of the Imperial opening to attack the
Ravager
directly. Charging at the
Ravager
, the
Concord
utilized it's powerful
tractor beam projector
to drag the
Ravager
down into Jakku's atmosphere as Ackbar then dispatched several New Republic ships and fighters to knock out the Super Star Destroyer's engines, turning the tide of battle in the favor of the New Republic.
A a result, as the
Ravager
crashed into the sands of Jakku, so rose the New Republic, ushering in the the symbolic end of the Galactic Civil War, the end of the Imperial Era, and the dawn of the
New Republic Era
.
While skirmishes continued on Jakku, the Galactic Civil War was all but over
With the Imperial command ship destroyed, New Republic forces were able to outflank the Imperial forces on all fronts. With the battle turning against the Empire, the surviving Imperial forces began pulling ships onto the planet's surface utilizing their tractor beams, killing most of the occupants in an instant.
While skirmishes continued on Jakku for several more
months
after the
Ravager
fell, the war was all but over in all meaningful ways; final spasms of a beheaded monster.
The surface of Jakku would remain littered with wreckage from the battle for decades to come
as wrecked Imperial ships and vehicles on Jakku were plundered by local scavengers for spare parts and equipment.
Decades later, contradicting stories continued to fly around Jakku's settlements about what exactly took place in the battle. A mysterious faction known as the
dead-enders
hung around Carbon Ridge, rumored to be protecting a secret
Imperial research base
.
Starting the game over
"
Listen to me...there's a ship...Imperialis...Hux is there...use the map--in a data spike in the computer. Set course for the unexplored...
"
"
The Eclipse...Palpatine's flagship...
"
"
Yes, go to it--Leave this place Sloane. Find a new demesne. Start the game over...
"
―
Gallius Rax
's gives information to
Rae Sloane
as the former dies
Yape Tashu, Gallius Rax, Brendol Hux, and his son Armitage, retreated to the Jakku Observatory
As the Empire lost the Battle of Jakku, Rax traveled to the Jakku Observatory along with Commandant Hux, Armitage Hux, the Imperial Adviser
Yupe Tashu
, and the child soldiers. While the Huxes and the soldiers waited aboard a
replica
of the Emperor's yacht
Imperialis
, Rax and Tashu entered the Observatory to activate the mining bore that would destabilize the planet's core. Rax planned to detonate Jakku's core, destroying the Imperial forces and the New Republic fleet before escaping to the Unknown Regions, taking the Huxes and the child soldiers with him to build a new Empire. As part of the ceremony, Rax threw the unwitting Tashu, who was carrying several Sith artifacts, to his death down the borehole, initiating the self-destruct mechanism.
With his final words, Rax told Sloane to carry out the final stage of the Contingency
Rax's plan was ultimately foiled by Sloane, Brentin, and Norra. Following a fight, Sloane killed Rax, then sealed the borehole shaft, stopping the planet's core from destabilizing further. This effectively sabotaged Palpatine's Contingency plan to destroy the remnants of his Empire. Heeding Rax's last words, Sloane assumed responsibility for carrying out the final stage of the Contingency. She accompanied the Huxes and the child soldiers into the Unknown Regions. After several months of travel, they rendezvoused with the Super Star Destroyer
Eclipse
,
formerly the Emperor's personal Star Destroyer,
which had been sent in advance after the Observatory's computers had plotted a safe route through the Unknown Regions.
End of an Empire
"
As part of the provisions of the Galactic Concordance, the New Republic instituted a drastic demilitarization meant to strip the galaxy of any single fighting force capable of vast conquest. New Republic politicians assumed the defeated Imperials would honor this treaty, and in fairness to their naivete, the hunger for peace was palpable across the galaxy.
"
―Jaynor of Bith
With the death of Rax, the disappearance of Sloane, and the failure of the Imperial counteroffensive which ended with the loyalists' catastrophic defeat in the Battle of Jakku,
the Empire forever changed as it was pushed back to a handful of sectors on the fringe of the Outer Rim, containing only a small fraction of the galaxy's population and industrial base. These sectors were a heavily fortified final redoubt, and the New Republic deemed that they posed too minor a threat to justify the high cost in life that liberating them would require.
Mas Amedda agreed to the Galactic Concordance, a treaty which outlined the surrender of the Galactic Empire and the dissolution of the Imperial government
Not long after the battle,
Grand Vizier
Mas Amedda
emerged from hiding, who, left with the highest position of power within the Empire after the Battle of Jakku, offered to surrender the Galactic Empire. This surrender would eventually come in the form of the
Galactic Concordance
,
which, after going through a lengthy process of modification, agreement, and ratification,
would eventually be signed by Mas Amedda on Chandrila, formally ending the
Galactic Civil War
.
The humiliating concordance imposed strict disarmament plans and punishing reparations on the Empire, including stipulations outlining the banning of recruitment and mobilization of the
Stormtrooper Corps
, the banning of
torture
, the forced abandonment of the numerous
Imperial Academies
scattered across the Empire, the adherence strict disarmament treaties, the ceding of the Imperial
throneworld
of
Coruscant
to the New Republic, and the payment heavy war reparations.
The concordance additionally established a
formal successor state
to the Galactic Empire within predetermined boundaries in the Core Worlds, Colonies, and the Inner Rim, made up of the remains of the
Imperial Navy
.
Soon after, all noncombatant functionaries who served in the Empire were given conditional pardons by the New Republic provided they acted by the articles of the Galactic Concordance. Meanwhile, Imperial officials who refused to surrender to the New Republic were branded as war criminals,
with some being believed to have been executed as a result.
While some former Imperial governors were invited to the New Republic, those that accepted the offer bore the weight of crushing reparations, making the decision unattractive to many remaining Imperials.
As such, factionalism fell over the fallen Empire
as many Imperial
Warlords
rejected the terms offered by the New Republic, instead fleeing with their
remnants
to establish footholds on distant worlds where the New Republic would not interfere,
clinging to what little power they had left.
Legacy
Strangers in a familiar land
Official successor state
The forces of the new Imperial remnant adhered to the terms of the Concordance and confined itself to the predetermined boundaries.
As outlined in the Galactic Concordance, a new future for the Empire was granted to remaining Imperial forces within a predetermined territory of
the galaxy
that included parts of the
Core Worlds
,
Colonies
, and the
Inner Rim
, containing many ancient and conservative
worlds
that had supported
Palpatine
including
Commenor
,
Humbarine
,
Tinnel
,
Rendili
, and
Denon
.
As such, at the command of the New Republic, all
Imperial forces
and
remnants
that complied with the provisions of the concordance retreated within the new boundaries.
However, the leadership of the
Inner systems' Imperial remnant
, made up of the various fragmented successors to the Empire, quickly devolved into petty squabbles on all matters from relations with the New Republic to which Imperial legacies deserved preservation, which combined with the regulation and dismemberment of the once-mighty Imperial military-industrial complex, resulted in struggle to turn the faction into a viable state. As a result, the Inner systems' Imperial remnant disintegrated soon after its founding, leading to several of its key worlds joining the New Republic instead, the representatives and leaders of which went on to become leaders of the
Centrists
, a political party which advocated and pushed for a stronger central government and military.
A new demesne
"
It's time to start over. This is our first order. To begin again. And to get it right, this time.
"
"
Yes, of course, Grand Admiral. Anything you need. Glory be to Grand Admiral Sloane.
"
"
No. Glory goes only to the Empire.
"
―Rae Sloane and Brendol Hux became reluctant allies
Rae Sloane, Brendol Hux, Armitage Hux, and a group of orphans travelled the unknown regions aboard the
Imperialis
Having heeded
Gallius Rax
's final words,
Grand Admiral
Rae Sloane
travelled across the
Unknown Regions
aboard the
Imperialis
alongside
Brendol Hux
, his son
Armitage
, and a group of orphans to rendezvous with the
Executor-class Star Dreadnought
Eclipse
at a series of safe coordinates stored inside a dataspike given to her. During the journey that took several months and involved several hyperspace jumps through a maze of
black holes
and
superstorms
, Sloane feared that the orphans, given that they took orders only from Armitage, would attack her in her sleep. As such, she struck an accord with Armitage by promising to protect the younger Hux from his father if Hux told the orphans to leave her alone.
Afterwards, Sloane confronted Brendol Hux about her killing of Rax, revealing the counselor's bloody cape. In response, Brendol attempted to attack her, but Sloane beat him into submission and forced him to agree to obey her orders and to stop harming his son, additionally ordering that the officer to teach Armitage everything he knew about the Empire, to which Hux agreed to by nodding his head. For the remainder of the trip, Sloane kept away from the children and bid her time studying its history, its flight time, its communication, and weapons, eventually discovering that the
Imperialis
had transmitted a set of path coordinates to a dozen different sources. Consulting the ship's sentinel droid, Sloane discovered that the path coordinates had been transmitted to other Imperials deemed loyal. During her solitude, Sloane also resolved that she would build a new Empire that was not given to the backstabbing and incest of Palpatine's former Empire which Rax had destroyed. Additionally, she also found that the blaster wound in her abdomen had not fully healed.
The Executor-class Star Dreadnought (pictured)
Eclipse
was parked at the edge of a geomagnetic storm
Eventually, the group arrived to and rendezvoused with the
Eclipse
, the former personal
flagship
of
the Emperor
, which had been sent ahead by Rax and was parked at the edge of a geomagnetic storm. As the
Imperialis
made it's final approach to the
dreadnought
Super Star Destroyer
, Sloane stated that their
first order
was start again, and to get it right that time around. In response, Hux agreed before announcing that glory was in order for the Grand Admiral, to which Sloane rejected, responding that glory was only to the Empire.
Sloane established a new regime that sought to restore the Empire while avoiding the original's mistakes
Eventually, the
Eclipse
rendezvoused with the forces that had jumped to the Unknown Regions from the Battle of Jakku,
a group that included
the self-appointed
high colonel
Enric Pryde
.
With this group, Sloane formed a
new regime
and continued the Imperial ideology forward while striving to avoid the same mistakes as the Empire, setting the remnant on a path toward
Neo-Imperialism
.
Over
years
of hardship, the remnant traveled and tamed the wilderness of the Unknown Regions and barely mapped
star systems
using
hyperspace
routes charted by the
Attendants
and once learned from the knowledge of Grand Admiral
Thrawn
during the
Imperial Era
,
eventually finding a footing on
planets
that had previously been secretly charted by the Empire.
During this time hidden in the dangerous at sparsely populated unknown regions, the Empire bolstered its forces with secret Imperial reinforcements
that had been previously seeded there by the Emperor
and began plotting their return to power.
Randd's remnant
Imperial forces under the command of Grand Moff Randd regrouped in the Queluhan Nebula
Around the same time, the remaining Imperial forces under the command of
Grand Moff
Randd
fled the
Battle of Jakku
and retreated to the
Queluhan Nebula
, where ionized
gases
ensured New Republic's
sensors
could not detect their force. There, the
Imperial remnant
amassed prepared a
large fleet
, crewed largely by new recruits, for a new offensive against the New Republic. During the buildup,
Commander
Nash Windrider
was posted to the
attack cruiser
Garrote
, where he ensured "proper discipline" to the crew he commanded to the point that they dared not turned away from their work, even when he left the command bridge. Despite learning of the survival of
Thane Kyrell
, Windrider did not reveal the information to
Dalven Kyrell
, who was serving as an assistant to the flight commander. Believing that
captain
Ciena Ree
had perished aboard the
Star Destroyer
Inflictor
at
Jakku
, Windrider nominated for the
Distinguished Medal of Imperial Honor
.
Upon learning of the nomination, Kyrell suggested the more common
Medal of Honor
would be more appropriate, though Windrider pointed out that she had stayed aboard the ship to crash it into the surface and deny the
Inflictor
to the New Republic. Dalven suggested that Windrider's nomination could be seen as a sign of factionalism since they had belonged in the same class, though Windrider retorted that several prominent Imperial captains,
generals
, and
admirals
, including Randd himself, were also planning to nominate Ree because she had died a hero's death. Chastised by his commander, Dalven remarked that Ciena had died a "terrible death," though Windrider and suggested that it was a glorious way to die for the Empire. Knowing that Dalven had ridiculed Ciena in his adolescence, Windrider considered sending the clerical
officer
on an "appropriate" suicide mission, though Windrider's disdain for Dalven was not matched by his hatred for the
traitor
to the Empire Thane. Later, as the fleet prepared for a strike against the New Republic, Windrider vowed to avenge Ciena's purported death.
A magistrate's vision
"
You cannot stop what has begun. No one can. I've had a vision, and I will fulfill my destiny.
"
―Imperial Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth
Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth's forces kept people under her rule ignorant of the Empire's collapse
Following the rise of the New Republic,
Magistrate
Morgan Elsbeth
kept the people under her
Empire-aligned industrial regime
ignorant of the Empire's collapse and continued to work them. Rarely leaving the walls of her palace on
Corvus
during this time, Morgan left her
army
of
scout guards
and
HK-87 assassin droids
to torture any dissenting villagers in shock cages outside her
capital
city
of
Calodan
's walls.
Meanwhile, Elsbeth received a vision
and calls from the
Nightsister
Great Mothers
, who had allied
Grand Admiral
Thrawn
after the
admiral
was
exiled
to the
Far galaxy
by
Ezra Bridger
during the
Liberation of Lothal
.
Eager to restore the Galactic Empire and believing she had a chance to bring back her culture,
Elsbeth started plotting to bring about Thrawn's return.
Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth (pictured) began preparations to bring about the return of Thrawn, who was exiled in the far Galaxy
To begin her mission to rescue Thrawn, Elsbeth arranged for
Facility 301G
, one of her former
shipyard
on
Corellia
,
to begin construction on parts for the
Eye of Sion
, a large
hyperspace transport ring
that could fit an
Imperial I
-class Star Destroyer
Despite the facility supposedly becoming a
salvage yard
for Imperial vessels to repurpose parts for
New Republic Defense Fleet
vessels, in reality, the staff, many of whom were Imperial loyalists, stayed the same, while the
Regional Supervisor
Myn Weaver
themself was also an Imperial loyalist.
As construction progressed,
Elsbeth enlisted the help of the
Dark Jedi
Baylan Skoll
and
Shin Hati
as well as the Imperial
inquisitor
Marrok
to bolster her forces.
Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth refused to surrender her regime to the New Republic
Around this time,
New Republic soldiers
, alongside
Nadura
, an ambassador for the Republic and a former resident of the
planet
, visited the Calodan in an attempt to bring Elsbeth to trial and have Corvus become a member of the Republic. Upon her arrival, Nadura demanded a meeting with Elsbeth, asking her to follow her peacefully rather than resort to a fight. Instead, Elsbeth coldly ordered her guards to slaughter Nadura and her escort, of which she personally killing two members of. Having rigged Nadura's ship to explode, as the ambassador reached her ship to send a distress signal to the New Republic, Elsbeth had her guards blow up the ship, killing all remaining new Republic members. Following this, Elsbeth had her guards set fire to the forests surrounding Calodan, burning most of Corvus' forests.
Neo-Imperialist holdouts
"
You see, boys, everybody thinks they want freedom, but what they really want is order. And when they realize that, they're gonna welcome us back with open arms.
"
―Imperial General Valin Hess, to Migs Mayfeld and Din Djarin
Several remnants continued to occupy the planet Morak
On the largely unknown planet of
Morak
in
Wild Space
,
which fell outside the jurisdiction of the New Republic,
several Imperial forces
continued to occupy the planet and began a secret
mining
operation for
rhydonium
, which after being mined, was brought to a
refinery
by
HCVw A9.2 juggernaut transport
. The
refinery
was run by ex-
Imperial Security Bureau
members and defended a
platoon
consisting of
stormtroopers
,
shoretroopers
,
technicians
, and
cargo transport pilots
.
By
9 ABY
,
the refinery served as a base of operations for the Imperial general
Valin Hess
while juggernaut transports began to be raided by a group of native
Shydopp
pirates
.
Moff Gideon lead a sizable Imperial remnant following the Empire's collapse
Meanwhile, the ex-ISB
Moff
Gideon
faked his execution for war crimes
and fled into the
Outer Rim Territories
with his position of prestige and authority intact.
There, the Moff was able to unite with other Imperial loyalists and form a sizable
Imperial remnant
,
for which he established a
base of operations
for on
Mandalore
.
The remnant would also come to control an
Imperial facility
on
Nevarro
built during the
Imperial expansion
, from which Imperial
scientist
doctor
Penn Pershing
worked on
cloning experiments
for the Gideon's remnant,
the results of which Gideon hoped to combine with the
Dark Trooper project
to create a perfect
army of super soldiers
to bring order to the galaxy.
The remnant would also take over a
building
in the planet's
capital
city
Nevarro City
, which became an Imperial safe house under the command of a loyal and nostalgic
Imperial officer
.
In addition, Gideon's remnant began acquiring illegal weapons at a
black market
port
on
Trask
with the plunders of the
Great Purge of Mandalore
, causing
Bo-Katan Kryze
to begin attacking and stealing the transports to form a
force
to retake Mandalore.
The Shadow Council was reformed to coordinate activity between neo-Imperial forces
By
9 ABY
,
Moff Gideon, along with other surviving Imperial
warlords
who sought to
restore the Empire
, including
Captain
Gilad Pellaeon
and his
delegation
,
Commandant
Brendol Hux
,
Commander
Coin
, a
warlord
who thought there were citizens still loyal to the Empire across the galaxy, and
Commander
Barro
, who thought such citizens would rally behind them if the Imperial remnants used a show of strength, formed a new
Shadow Council
under the theoretical leadership of
Grand Admiral
Thrawn
, who Pellaeon though would soon return to the galaxy from
exile
as
Heir to the Empire
. The new Shadow Council coordinated their
forces
, exchanging them when needed, while making themselves appear as unorganized remnants to conceal their strength.
Yet, to many in the galaxy, the survival of Imperial remnants did not alter the reality of the
era
they lived in; as for many, the Empire was gone.
Republic after the Empire
Truth and Reconciliation
"
Your crimes are well-known. Step down willingly. Turn yourself in. Please. I can help you get a fair trial. Don't burn everything down around you.
"
―New Republic Ambassador Nadura, to Imperial Magistrate Morgan Elsbeth
In the waning says of the Empire, many Imperial who had worked for
Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
and the
Imperial Security Bureau
erased their own identities within
Imperial Archives
and simply left, never to return. As a result, in the wake of the Imperial regime's collapse, planetary populations began discovering the true remains of the Imperial regime; secret interrogation and torture facilities, execution chambers, death camps, concentration camps, and hidden offices for
Imperial Intelligence
that contained huge amounts surveillance records. Upon their discovery, riots nearly broke out on these worlds as huge swaths of citizens attempted to storm these facilities to either find the fate of their closest family and friends or to destroy records of family being Imperial informants. The
New Republic
quickly realized the importance of the documents for holding Imperial commanders and leaders on trial, though were left at a loss on how to protect the documents, not wanting to use lethal force on both trespassers nor prisoners in concentration camps who trying to burn them to the ground. Making things more difficult, not all worlds where the facilities were located had joined the New Republic, making the topic of jurisdiction, in this case between the demands of justice and history versus the claims of innocent civilians to know what information the previous government held about them and their right to privacy, became a contentious issue.
The New Republic discovered the brutal prison conditions on Wobani
During the first briefing of the governing council New Republic
governing council
regarding the intelligence gathered from
Wobani
,
Agent
Joris Vegen
, one of the first New Republic personnel to arrive on the planet and who was in charge of the evidence's presentation, was so upset by the horrifying images that she presented that she broke down in tears twice. Three
senators
were also similarly stricken, leading to delay of 27 minutes in later records. When news reached
Leia Organa
of the suffering and the need for aid quickly became apparent, she gathered a group of
Alderaanian
refugees lead by
Commander
Rutowan Cannter
who paid for and personally delivered
heavy freighters
full of
bacta
and
foodstuffs
within three
days
, though it was not enough for the amount of people suffering.
Despite this, a
prison
on Wobani would later be used by the New Republic as a prison.
On
Ivera X
, surviving civilians looted the planet's
Imperial headquarters
and rather than giving it to themselves, used the wealth to hire the
bounty hunter
Xegan Miatt
to locate the senior Imperial officials who ordered the destruction of their cities and bring them back to them for justice. Miatt quickly captured two Imperial
majors
and a
lieutenant
governor
, all of whom were promptly executed by the
Iverians
. However, the New Republic soon stepped in, stopping the killings from continuing.
Left with many former members of the Imperial regime split across various prisons, prisoner of war camps, and other facilities, the New Republic began the enormous task of identifying every Imperial they had in their custody. Many of there prisoners had not given their real identities to the Republic, many as a result of being captured with their command cylinders and seeing no reason to, but also because there were some prisoners that were wanted for high crimes against the galaxy. To identify the prisoners, the New Republic began a large interrogation and questioning program through
New Republic Intelligence
agents and specially programmed
droids
to both identify the prisoners and gather information on the crimes they committed. To facilitate this, a system of evaluation based upon each individual’s perceived value and risk was applied in various combinations, with those identified as being high value— Imperial officers and leaders or those who possessed important information— not only were kept in secure locations to prevent escape or suicide attempts, but were also the first to be interrogated. In one such interrogation, when Imperial
Vice Admiral
Corf Ferno
was asked why he had advised
Moff
Pollus Maksim
to surrender, he claimed he had fought enough wars to know when they were lost, and he simply wanted to go home. However, the memoir he later wrote,
Fighting with the Galactic Empire
, would contradict some of the testimony he provided to the New Republic. In the end, numerous ex-Imperials were tried for war crimes and genocide.
The New Republic Amnesty Program provided a path for ex-Imperials to be rehabilitated
Meanwhile, those registered further down the rankings were kept for a long time, during which issues arose within the New Republic regarding what to do once they were processed and potentially freed. Eventually, the New Republic decided on a process of de-Imperialization was instituted, in which former Imperials registered as low value and low risk were moved through processing quickly to enable them to take up the jobs they’d previously held in the Empire under the New Republic government. However, other ex-Imperials that had committed minor crimes took longer to processed over the course of several
years
, as the New Republic took time to look through the
Hall of Imperial Records
on Coruscant. Those adjudged to have committed lesser offenses were eventually released, with certain restrictions relating to voting rights and weapon ownership, under the
New Republic Amnesty Program
.
In the Amnesty program, counseling was provided to former Imperials that was performed by droids, and accommodation was provided within the
Re-Integration Institute
on
Coruscant
. However, the program both utilized, albeit on lower voltages, the
Mind Flayer
, a
torture
machine formerly used by Imperial interrogators, under the rational that the machines would be used to help ease or remove painful memories and emotions. Additionally, the program not only isolated members to a group made up of other Amnesty members, but also stripped members of a name, instead simply identified members by a numbered designation much in the same way the Galactic Empire had.
Despite these conditions, the program still went ahead, with an
individual
that once served in the Galactic Empire as a facilities planning officer serving in the New Republic Amnesty Program, during which time he helped rebuild
Plazir-15
and eventually became the its
government
's leader with the name of "
Bombardier
."
Despite many around the galaxy refusing to accept that these ex-Imperials could ever be rehabilitated to any acceptable level, the New Republic persisted with the program.
Propping up the New Republic
"
When we look back upon the war against the Empire—upon the billions of lives lost—sometimes it seems as though nothing could ever have been worth the terrible price we paid. But when we think of those people who perished in the conflict, let us remember that they died for justice. For liberty. For the extraordinary peace we now enjoy.
This
is what we fought for.
"
―Tai-Lin Garr
The New Republic worked to pass legislation overhauling the old Imperial legal framework
As the New Republic began to get a grip of the situation, the newly formed
New Republic Senate
got to work passing emergency legislation to overhaul the old Imperial legal framework, giving the Republic a license to govern. However, the New Republic quickly faced the issue of fairly and justly implementing and applying these new laws and rules. Unlike the Empire, which had selectively chosen when to bring down punishment, the New Republic sought to show the citizens of the galaxy what justice and the law consistently and fairly applied looked like, which would show they no longer needed to be afraid as transgressions of the law would be treated the same in every instance.
At the same time, the New Republic began quickly removing and publicly destroying symbols of the Empire to banish the specter of the fallen regime. During this time, one of the most contentious and hotly debated topics was making the
capital
of the New Republic
Coruscant
. Those in favor of the move pointed out that the planet had been the capital of the
Galactic Republic
before becoming the Imperial
throneworld
, and that bureaucratic systems of still existing on the planet made it invaluable. Meanwhile, opponents to the movement argued that it was a bad idea move the capital to Coruscant so soon after the Empire, as moving their capital to the Imperial throneworld could be seen as becoming a new empire.
Ultimately, a rotating capital system was eventually established,
during which time Coruscant would serve as capital
in
9 ABY
.
During this time, Mas Amedda cut multiple highly advantageous deals with the New Republic that not only out of prison, but also living in style.
Crumbling pillars of the Empire
"
Compare Imperial rule to what is happening now… Look outside. Is the world more peaceful since the revolution? I see nothing but death and chaos.
"
―"The Client"
The Military Disarmament Act combined with the galaxy-wide recession limited the size of the New Republic Defense Force as the threat of the Imperial remnants grew
As the New Republic was left with the reigns to lead
the galaxy
, the pillars of the Imperial state that had once been viewed as secure crumbled, its ramifications became apparent as infrastructure broke and halted on various worlds with nobody to facilitate it, and nobody to pay workers. The knock on effects became clear as job guarantees vanished, food shipments stopped, transport services froze, sanitation repairs ended. The
galactic economy
quickly shrunk into recession as the New Republic began needing
money
more than ever to provide aid, medical supplies, and foodstuff at a
time
when there was scarcely enough to go around. Knock on effects quickly occurred as
New Republic soldiers
and
pilots
, many of whom had served in the
Rebel Alliance
during the
Galactic Civil War
, were forced out of service due to a lack of enough pay, forcing them to return home traumatized and scarred, sometimes to worlds and families who had rejected them for fighting the Empire. Alongside the
Military Disarmament Act
, an act forced through the New Republic senate
around the end of the Galactic Civil War
that limited the size of the
New Republic Defense Force
in favor of planetary defense forces to avoid repeating the mistakes of the Galactic Republic,
the New Republic Defense Force was left spread thin
as the threat of the Imperial remnants began to grow on the fringes of the galaxy.
In the
Core Worlds
, the situation was better, as most
Star systems
in the region had not been occupied or devastated to the same extend systems and worlds in other regions had. The Core Worlds also retained enough of the bureaucratic infrastructure from the Empire, though these worlds, all of whom had held much more significant power in the Empire, were forced out of such positions as a result of their service to the Imperial regime. As a result, suspicion weighed heavily on many planets, with worlds that had cooperated with the Imperial regime seen as being complicit with its worst crime, while worlds that had long been occupied by Imperial forces and as such did not know any other way of life were viewed as desiring the return of the Empire.
Imperial resurgence
Stirrup on Nevarro
Commissioning bounty hunters
"
There is one job.
"
"
Let's see the puck.
"
"
No puck. Face to face. Direct commission. Deep pocket.
"
"
Underworld?
"
"
All I know is no chain code. Do you want the chit or not?
"
―Greef Karga gives Din Djarin information on a new bounty
In
9 BBY
,
Moff
Gideon
came to require a
Force-sensitive
being
for a series of experiments involving
blood
transfusions overseen by
Doctor
Penn Pershing
,
using the remains of the
Imperial Army
he controlled to attempt to acquire it.
However,  the asset had been captured by a
Nikto
encampment
on the
planet
Arvala-7
,
and as a result, an
Nevarro City
-based
officer
of
Gideon's Imperial remnant
, in possession the coordinates of the Child's last known location and
tracking fobs
that tracked the asset when close to it, the officer set up
a high paying
but off-the record job
for
bounty hunters
to
retrieve
the asset, where rather than using traditional
holopuck
and
chain code
, the client only met the
hunters
who accepted the job face to face
at his
safe house
in order to not give any more information than Grogu's age and tracking signature.
To get hunters for the job, the client informed
Greef Karga
, the
Bounty Hunters' Guild
's agent on Nevarro, of the job, and provided him with
chits
to give to
bounty
hunters to allow them into his safe house.
As many
bounty
hunters from the
Nevarro division
of the Guild took up the Imperial job, none were successful in acquiring the asset.
Yet as the bounty was live, Karga informed the the Client that
Mandalorian
Bounty hunter
Din Djarin
was coming to meet him about the bounty, describing the hunter as both the best in the
parsec
but also as expensive.
As a result, the client waited at his desk in the safe house, guarded by four armed stormtroopers,
in anticipation of Djarin's arrival,
preparing a slab of
beskar
for the hunter as down payment.
Soon after, Djarin arrived at the safe house, and presented the chit he was given to a
TT-8L/Y7 gatekeeper droid
, which, after verifying the chit, opened the door for the bounty hunter, where a
GNK-series power droid
then guided the bounty hunter to the client.
"The Client" defused a standoff between his stormtroopers and Din Djarin.
Upon Din arriving in the main room, a
squad
of
stormtroopers
turned their heads to face the mandalorian, before the Client greeted the bounty hunter. However, Doctor Pershing then quickly entered the room, startling Din into immediately drawing his
weapons
and prompting the stormtroopers protecting the Client to do the same on the bounty hunter and tell him to drop his weapons and freeze. As a result, Pershing stuttered for a moment before apologizing, causing the Client to stand up and introduce Pershing, asking the mandalorian to excuse the enthusiastic but non-discrete scientist's lack of decorum before asking that Djarin lower his guns. However, the bounty hunter demanded that the stormtroopers lower theirs first, causing one to respond that they had Djarin outnumbered four to one, to which the bounty hunter stated were odds he liked. Stepping in, the Client stated to Darjin that Karga had said that he was expensive, inviting the bounty hunter to sit before signaling to the
troopers
to do the same.
Once Djarin sat, the Client presented the mandalorian with an ingot of beskar
cast in an Imperial furnace,
clarifying that it was real as the squad of stormtroopers looked on. The Client then stated that the ingot was a down payment, before explaining that he had a
camtono
of
beskar
upon the mandalorian's delivery of the asset, before Pershing then added that the asset had to be alive, which the Client agreed with. However, the Client then acknowledged that he understood bounty hunting was a complicated profession, and as such would accept proof of termination for a lower fee. Pershing the stated to the Client that such payment for proof of termination was not what they had agreed upon, to which the Client stated he was simply being pragmatic. Djarin then asked for the puck, however the Client responded that the secrecy of the bounty dictated a less traditional arrangement, stating he could only give a tracking fob, which Pershing promptly gave to the bounty hunter. When Djarin asked for the chain code, the Client stated he could only give the last four digits, the age of the asset, which the Client then explained was fifty years. Following this, The Client then offered Djarin the last recorded positional data, which he believed alongside the fob, would allow a hunter such as Djarin would make quick work of the bounty. As Djarin stood up and began to leave, the Client stated to the hunter that the beskar belonged back in the hands of the mandalorian as he believed it was good to restore the natural order of things, asking Din if he agreed. However, the hunter did not respond and only turned his head momentarily before leaving the safe house.
To the winner go the spoils
"
What are your plans for it?
"
"
How uncharacteristic of one of your reputation. You have taken both commission and payment. Is it not the code of the Guild that these events are now forgotten?
"
―Din Djarin questions "the Client" regarding his plans for Grogu
the Client confirmed Djarin's capture of the asset
Eventually, Djarin tracked down the asset and informed Greef Karga of the asset's capture. Karga in turn told the Client, who became antsy and excited upon learning of Djarin's capture of the asset. Karga soon sent a response message, in which he informed Djarin to deliver the asset directly to the client, and speculated if the Cient was going to eat the asset or hang it on his wall as he was very antsy. As such, upon Djarin's return to Nevarro, the bounty hunter returned to the remnant safe house directly. Upon the hunter knocking on the door, a gatekeeper droid once again popped out, which Djarin once again present his chit to, and had his identity verified. Once this was complete, two stormtroopers made their way to the door and silently greeted the hunter and confirmed the asset was with him, before the group entered the safe house. As the group made their way to the main room, one of the stormtroopers grabbed the asset's
hover pram
, prompting Djarin to tell the stormtrooper to take it easy, to which the stormtrooper responded that the hunter should take it easy. Once the group entered the main room,
the Client rose from his seat
and approached the Child's
hovering pram
, using the fob to confirm that he was indeed "the asset." Doctor Pershing, who was also present in the main room, then scanned Grogu and confirmed that he was in good health
and fit for experiments.
"The Client" gave Din Djarin his camtono of beskar as payment for the delivery of the asset
Following this, the Client told the Djarin that his reputation was not unwarranted, though the bounty hunter ignored the comment and asked the Client how many fobs he had given out. In response to the hunter's question, the Client explained that the reason was the asset was of extreme importance to him, and as such he had to ensure delivery, before continuing that to only the winner would receive the bounty, revealing his camtono of beskar to Djarin. As the bounty hunter picked up a ingot of beskar, the Client continued that the bounty was quite large for the delivery of such a small asset. However, as Pershing brought the asset into another room for study, Djarin asked what the Empire's plans for the asset were. In response the Client stated to Djarin that it was uncharacteristic of a bounty hunter with his reputation to ask such a question, especially after receiving both commission and payment, before reminding the hunter in question form that the
Bounty Hunter Code
dictated the events that just transpired were to be forgotten. Continuing, the Client told Djarin that the beskar was enough to make a nice replacement for his damaged
armor
, adding that in the
current era
it was becoming harder to find a mandalorian than finding beskar.
Following the conversation, Djarin left the Imperial safe house and returned to the Nevarro City's secret
Mandalorian covert
, where he had
The Armorer
create a new chestplate for him in her
workshop
. Before the new armor's creation began however, another Mandalorian in the covert,
Paz Vizsla
, noticed the ingots, and confronted Djarin alongside several other Mandalorians, taking an ingot of beskar and identifying it as being cast in an Imperial smelter, telling the others around him that the beskar were the spoils of the Great Purge, after the Armorer briefly responded, Visla reminded the room that
Mandalore
was shattered by the Empire, yet Djarin was sharing tables with them. After a short fight broke out between Visla and Djarin, the armorer broke up the fight, reminding the pair and the group that the Empire was no longer. A the same time, Greef Karga also received multiple ingots of beskar from the Imperials, which he shared with Djarin during a later conversation. during the same conversation, Djarin asked Karga what he thought the clients would do with it, thought Karga stated he had not asked due to the Guild Code. However, Djarin pressed the question, pointing out the clients were Imperials, to which Karga stated the Empire was gone, and all that was left were
mercenaries
and
warlords
.
Stormtroopers conducted a perimeter sweep of the remnant safe house
Unsatisfied however, Djarin returned to the Imperial safe house to free the Child he had brought to the Imperials. As Djarin neared the safe house, the Client ordered Pershing to extract the necessary material and get rid of the asset. However, Pershing protested the order as Moff Gideon had ordered them to keep the asset alive, to which the Client told Pershing to finish the work quickly as he could no longer guarantee the Doctor's safety. Unbeknownst to both Imperials however, Djarin was spying on their conversation. Djarin would then begin his rescue by knocking on the door of the safe house, making the gatekeeper droid reveal itself. However, Djarin ripped the droid's head off, causing two stormtroopers to leave the safe house and investigate, with one then ordering a perimeter sweep after spotting the destroyed droid. As they did so, Djarin set off a
bomb
, which the stormtroopers proceeded to investigate. However, as the stormtroopers neared the blast site, they were caught off guard by Djarin, who promptly defeated them and entered the safe house.
Pershing was spared by Din Djarin
As the Djarin entered, a stormtrooper on the inside hallway shot at Djarin, only for the blaster bolt to be deflected. Djarin then shot and killed the stormtrooper, before proceeding further inside the base. There, he faced Doctor Pershing, who begged for the hunter not to hurt the child. Djarin shot a nearby
IT-O interrogation droid
, before putting a blaster up to Pershing's head and asking what he did to it. In response, Pershing responded that he was protecting the Child and it would already be dead if he was not, before once again begging for his life. Pershing continued to beg for his life for a moment before looking up to find both Djarin and the Child gone.
Stormtroopers attempted to stop Djarin from escaping with the Child
Meanwhile, a stormtrooper spotted Djarin and informed their comrade who stood next to them, before the pair then opened fire on the bounty hunter before Djarin the shot the lights out and hid. As a result, the stormtrooper squad then searched the room for the mandalorian, with one trooper ordering that they split up to flush the hunter out, which another stromtrooper confirmed. A stormtrooper then attempted to tell the hunter to give up as there was nowhere to run, but was shot by Djarin before the hunter defeated the rest of the squad. As Djarin attempted to leave the safe house's though the main room, another squad of stormtroopers then surrounded the hunter, with the stormtroopers ordering the hunter to freeze and drop his weapons. Djarin would then put the child down and released
Whistling birds
, killing all four stormtroopers, before escaping with the asset. Local bounty hunters then attempted to stop Djarin from escaping with the bounty, but would ultimately fail when the Manadalorian covert revealed themselves to protect Djarin.
Imperial occupation of Nevarro City
"
IG-11 will join me. And we will do it not for payment but to protect the child from Imperial slavery. None will be free until the old ways are gone forever.
"
―Kuiil
Following his escape, Djarin travelled
the Galaxy
while successfully protecting the Child from number of bounty hunters who attempted recapture the Child.
During this time, Djarin met the ex-Republic
Shock trooper
Carasynthia Dune
on
Sorgan
, who explained to the hunter how she had once fought against Imperial warlords.
Not long after, Djarin met the former
Imperial sharpshooter
Migs Mayfeld
, which Djarin suggested meant Mayfeld's aim was bad. In response Mayfeld told explained that he had not served as a stormtrooper.
On Nevarro meanwhile, Gideon's Imperial remnant responded to the escape of the asset by occupying Nevarro City shortly after and
retaliating
on the hidden Mandalorian covert for their part in the asset's escape, killing many in The Tribe. The Armorer
and Paz Visla however, survived the attack.
Eventually, Greef Karga sent a message to Djarin in which he informed the hunter of the Imperial occupation that had descended on Nevarro City before asking the hunter to aid him in killing the Client with the promise of a clean slate and the ability to leave with the Child. In addition, Karga requested that Djarin bring the Child should Djarin accept the mission, reasoning the Imperials would not stop until they acquired the asset while promising his guild members would ensure their protection. Secretly however, Karga planned to betray Djarin and return Grogu to the Empire. Planning to accept the offer from Karga, Djarin travelled to Sorgan to recruit Cara Dune and for the operation. While initially hesitant to join it due to her criminal record that could land her a life sentence, upon learning that the
warlord
they would be facing was Imperial, Cara agreed to join.
Following this, the group travelled to
Arvala-7
to recruit the
ugnaught
Kuiil
, who had helped Djarin originally track down the Child. As the group discussed the operation at
Kuiil's moisture farm
, Kuiil revealed he had previously served the Empire to Dune before adding that he had payed off his clan's debt and no longer served anyone but himself. After further private discussion with Djarin, Kuiil eventually agreed to aid in the operation to protect the Child from slavery, as he believed nobody would be truly free until the old ways were gone. As a result, they group, now also including the reprogramed
droid
IG-11
, began to travel to Nevarro to partake in the operation. During their travel, Djarin and Dune engaged in a friendly arm wrestle, though upon doing so the Child used
the force
in an attempt to protect Djarin. In response to the incident, Kuiil noted that he had heard rumors of force users, prompting Cara to angrily ask Kuill if he had heard the rumors while he was working for the Empire. In response to Dune's comment, Kuill clarified he was sold into
indentured servitude
, prompting Dune to point out that Kuill was free before Kuill explained how he had bought his freedom through intense skill and labor, adding that Dune should not cast doubt on who he served. Later, shortly before approaching Nevarro, Dune and Djarin discussed Nevarro, with Dune explaining that Nevarro had stayed part of the Empire until the end of the
Galactic Civil War
. Djarin the explained that the warlord they were going to take out was once an
Imperial officer
and their station was hard to tell as they no longer wore a
rank insignia plaque
, before explaining how he had taken out the warehouse and that was the reason for the Imperial reinforcements in the city. Dune however felt there was more going on and told Djarin as much. Later in the conversation, Djarin reminded Dune that they only needed to take out the head Imperial, as the rest would then scatter like
rats
if the leader was taken out.
Upon landing the
Razor Crest
on Nevarro, Djarin and his detail met with a group of bounty hunters and Karga, who, upon seeing Cara Dune, recommended she stay with the ship as the town was run by Imperials and would get irritated at the sight of a shock trooper. Ultimately, Karga agreed to let Dune come if she covered her Shock trooper tatoo, which she did. That night, the group set up camp and sat around a fire, during which time Djarin and Karga once again discussed the plan. Karga explained that they would enter the cantina and show the Client the Child, before then joining the Client at a table where Djarin would then kill the Client. Djarin the requested clarification on the Client's reinforcements, to which Karga explained that as they were ex-empire, they would scatter the moment they lost their paychecks. Djarin then asked what would happen if they did not, to which Karga stated that the Imperials would. Still unsatisfied however, Djarin pushed Karga, prompting Karga explain that Dune and the Guild hunters could easily defeat any remaining troopers that remain. Not long after, Karga was attacked by a
Nevarro reptavian
, but was ultimately saved by the Child, prompting Karga to rethink his planned betrayal.
Change of plans
"
Yes, Moff Gideon?
"
"
Have they brought the child?
"
"
Yes, they have. Currently, it is sleeping.
"
"
You may wanna check again.
"
―"The Client"'s last words, to Moff Gideon
As the group neared Nevarro City the next
day
, Karga turned and shot his detail before revealing to Djarin and Dune of his orginally planned betrayal and his reasoning for turning. Karga then offered Djarin a choice; to shoot him and escape with the child knowing the Client is obsessed with the Child, or help him liberate the city. After some discussion, the group agreed to help liberate the city with Djarin pretending to be caught along with the Child's pram as bait, and Dune pretending to be the bounty hunter that caught him.
As a result, Kuill returned to the
Razor Crest
with the Child to keep them safe while Djarin, Dune, and Karga approached Nevarro City. Upon arriving at the city's entrance,
Scout trooper
AP-1982
requested Karga's chain code, to which Karga while explained that he had captured Djarin and was going to present him to the Client. However, AP-1982 once again requested Karga to present his chain code, to which Karga obliged. As AP-1982 scanned Karga's chain code, he offered Karga 20
credits
for Djarin's helmet, to which Karga refused, stating it would go on his own wall. After the group was cleared to enter the city, the group continued to the cantina where the Client was while passing the occupying
Stormtroopers
. The large amount of stormtroopers in the city prompted Dune to point out to Karga that he had said there was only four stormtroopers, to which Karga explained he had meant there were only four stormtroopers guarding the Client.
Djarin was presented to the Client as a prisoner
Eventually, the group arrived at the cantina, where after entering, quietly Karga pointed out how there were only four stormtroopers to Djarin before greeting the Client by presenting Djarin. Following this, the Client inspected Djarin and complimented the Mandalorian's armor by sharing his amazement at the beauty of beskar when forged by ancient artisans, before offering Karga a drink, which the magistrate accepted before the Client directing Djarin and Karga to sit at a table. After the group did so, the client posed Djarin with rhetorical question, asking why the mandalorians rejected Imperial rule as to his understanding, the Empire improved every system it touched in every measurable metric. Continuing, the Client then asked Djarin to compare Imperial rule to the
current era
, which he saw as nothing but death and chaos. Following his statements, the Client the requested to see the child, causing Karga to claim that the child was asleep. However, the Client remained undeterred, stating that everybody would be quiet before once again requesting Karga open the pram. Before Karga could respond however, the Client was contacted by Moff Gideon, forcing him to stop excuse himself to the group to take the call. As the Client began to make contact, more stormtroopers entered, causing Dune to point the fact out to Karga, who could no longer defend his statement.
The Client and the other Imperial troops in the cantina were shot by stormtroopers outside the building
Upon making contact with the Client, Moff Gideon inquired if the group had brought the Child, to which the Client responded they had and that it was currently sleeping. However, Gideon simply stated that the Client should check again before a
squad
of
death troopers
that had assembled outside the cantina opened fire on the building, killing all Imperial forces inside and trapping Dune, Karga, and Djarin. Moments later, a
K79-H20 Imperial Troop Transport
arrived, deploying a
battalion
of stormtroopers to supplement the death troopers and further secure the area outside the cantina. In response to the situation, the group inside the building took cover, and Djarin attempted to contact Kuiil to find out if he'd made it to the ship yet. After the ugnaught shared that he had not, Djarin ordered Kuiil to get to the ship and leave Nevarro before revealing that he and his allies were pinned down. Unbeknownst to both however, Scout troopers AP-1982 and
JS-1975
picked up on the communication, and promptly activated their speeder bikes and set out to recover the Child.
Moff Gideon joined his troops outside the cantina
Meanwhile, Moff Gideon
piloted
his
Outland TIE fighter
into Nevarro City and landed behind the battalion surrounding the cantina, before leaving the
starfighter
's
cockpit
and making his way to the front. Once there, Gideon addressed the group inside the cantina, telling them that they had something that he wanted, they did not understand what they were truly in possession of, and that in a few moments the Child would be his. Indeed, shortly after those words were spoken by Gideon, AP-1982 and JS-1975 caught up to Kuiil and killed the ugnaught before then recovering the Child for the Empire.
Two scout troopers standing by
"
Let me check on this thing. This is crazy. Any update yet?
"
"
That's a negative. Still waiting on confirmation. He just killed an officer for interrupting him, so this might take a while.
"
"
Thank you. Standing by still. Unbelievable.
"
―JS-1975 and an operator
AP-1982 and JS-1975 awaited clearance to enter Nevarro City
After recovering the Child, AP-1982 and JS-1975 made their way back toward Nevarro City. Upon reaching a checkpoint outside the city, JS-1975 used their
comlink
to inform an
operator
that they had arrived and were awaiting confirmation to proceed into the city. Following this, the operator cleared them to proceed, though they also advised the
troopers
to double check citing the fact that Gideon had already taken out a local Imperial squad. As a result, JS-1975 told the operator that they would be standing by before AP-1982 then asked JS-1975 if the operator had said the Gideon had killed his own men, to which JS-1975 stated that they were not sure, though they believed it was possible as they knew Gideon's forces liked to lay down the law when they first arrive in a town.
Following this, the Child, who was in a sack carried by JS-1975, began making noise, prompting the scout trooper to punch the child through the bag and tell them to shut up before AP-1982 then asked JS-1975 what the Child was, to which JS-1975 responded that they did not know but for all they cared, the moff could eat it and he would not ask questions. AP-1982 then asked if they could see the Child, to which JS-1975 pointed out that the operator had stated Gideon had killed his own men to make a point, before asking AP-1982 if they understood the point and causing the scout trooper to back down.
AP-1982 attempted to shoot a piece of junk to bide time
Following their exchange with JS-1975, AP-1982 pulled out pulled out an
EC-17 hold-out blaster
and began attempting to shoot at a piece of trash, though they failed at landing a shot. JS-1975 then pulled out their EC-17 blaster and fired, though they too missed their shot. The two scout troopers then tried again, failing to land a shot once again and causing JS-1975 to briefly inspect their own blaster. After the two put their blasters down, AP-1982 asked JS-1975 if they should give the Child some
water
, prompting JS-1975 to point out to AP-1982 that they were just trying to look at the child. AP-1982 then pointed out to JS-1975 that they had seen it, to which JS-1975 responded they they had only barely seen it as they had quickly picked the child up off the ground before then stuffing it in their sack. AP-1982 pointed out that was more then they got to see it, to which JS-1975 stated that they would not take the child out of the bag until they delivered it to the moff, which once again got AP-1982 to back down.
Following this, AP-1982 turned to sit in a different position while JS-1975 stood up and commed the operator asking for an update, to which the operator said they were still waiting on confirmation as Gideon had killed an
officer
for interrupting him. In response, JS-1975 thanked the operator before then adding that they and AP-1982 were still standing by. Upon JS-1975 finishing, AP-1982 asked what the last time the Child move was, to which JS-1975 stated that it had only been a couple of minutes at most and the child was fine. AP-1982 claimed it had been more than a minute however, before suggesting that they should check on the child to make sure it was still alive as it had been hit quite hard. In response, JS-1975 pointed out that AP-1982 just wanted to see it, though AP-1982 continued to pressed onward, eventually causing JS-1975 to furiously cave and show AP-1982 the child, proving that the child was fine. While looking at the child, AP-1982 poked the child while they and JS-1975 speculated on the child being a pet. Upon looking up to continue their speculation however, AP-1982 had their finger bitten by the child, causing AP-1982 to punch the child while JS-1975 said it served them right.
AP-1982 and JS-1975 were attacked and incapacitated by IG-11
Following this,
IG-11
approached the checkpoint and ordered the scout troopers to stop, causing the two troopers to grab their
pistols
, aim them at the
IG-series assassin droid
, and demand that the
droid
identify themself. When IG-11 identified themself as the child's nurse droid and requested the child's return, AP-1982 stated that they thought the droid was a
hunter
as
IG-series
droids were usually hunters, to which JS-1975 pointed out that the droid was, by chance, a nurse, before apologizing to the droid and telling it that it had to leave as well as firing a warning shot. When IG-11 requested clarification if that meant their request was denied, JS-1975 repeated their request for the droid to leave. As soon as JS-1975 said such however, IG-11 grabbed their arm and twisted it, causing them to scream, before then tossing the scout trooper to the ground. AP-1982 then tried firing a warning shot, but their blaster was quickly knocked out of their hand by the IG-series droid before they were grabbed by the helmet and getting their head rammed into a speeder bike several times. IG-11 then hijacked JS-1975's
74-Z speeder bike
and escaped towards Nevarro city with the Child.
Astute panic
"
You have something I want. You may think you have some idea of what you are in possession of, but you do not. In a few moments, it will be mine.
"
―Moff Gideon
Imperial forces assembled an E-Web heavy repeating blaster outside the cantina
Meanwhile, Imperial stormtroopers began to assemble a
newer variant of the
E-Web heavy repeating blaster cannon
, the
E-HOB heavy repeating laser cannon
,
outside the cantina, which Cara Dune pointed out to Din Djarin, who had located a sewer vent in the cantina to escape. As a result, Dune attempted to open the sewer grate with blaster fire as the Imperial troops completed the heavy repeating blaster's assembly. However, as she finished firing, Dune failed to open the sewer grate before Moff Gideon, hearing the commotion inside, began to speak to the group, stating that the astute panic of the group suggested they were aware of the situation they were in, and that he wanted to avoid further violence and instead offer a moment of consideration.
Gideon then continued by introducing the E-Web to the group and revealed he knew all of the everybody in the cantina's names by connecting the E-Web to Night of a Thousand Tears, and event known to Djarin, and to the Shock trooper operations that Dune had participated in. Gideon then further identified Karga as a disgraced
magistrate
suggesting he should lay down his weapon and come outside. Following this, Karga asked Gideon what his proposal was, to which Gideon answered that his proposal was reasonable negotiations. However, after Karga asked for assurance, Gideon admitted that the mercenaries couldn't trust him and just as Karga had broke their earlier arrangement, he would gladly break any promise made and watch the former magistrate die, offering only the assurance that he would act in his self-interest. Following his statement, Gideon then informed the group in the cantina that they had until sundown to surrender, or else he would have the E-Web open fire.
Gideon then walked away from the cantina as the group inside discussed their next steps, with Karga suggesting they at least hear Gideon out. However, Dune did not share Karga's view, stating her belief that since she was a former rebel shock trooper, she would likely be uploaded to a
Mind Flayer
by the Imperials. Djarin the revealed that he was sure the Imperial officer was Gideon, despite Dune's belief otherwise due to Gideon's supposed execution, because the
officer
knew his name, something that was only recorded in the
registers of Mandalore
, and Gideon was a member of the
Imperial Security Bureau
on
Mandalore
during the purge. Dune then stated that the Moff's intelligence background explained how he knew their names, before Djarin then pointed out that the fact Gideon had stated he still needed them meant that the child had escaped safely.
Imperial forces in Nevarro City where attacked by IG-11
Shortly after, IG-11 arrived to Nevarro City with the intent to fulfill their purpose to nurse and protect. Arriving on the speeder bike stolen from JS-1975, IG-11 gunned down the three Imperial troopers guarding the edge of the town with a blaster mounted to the speeder, before proceeding inside the town without slowing, during which time they gunned down three Imperial stormtroopers. As IG-11 neared a
squad
of stormtroopers, the troopers attempted to shoot the droid, though to little avail as one trooper barely dodged a blaster bolt from IG-11, another trooper was hit by the same bolt, and another stormtrooper was gunned down by IG-11 further down the road. As IG-11 passed two stormtroopers who had been talking with a
jawa
, they were too gunned down as the IG droid passed them. As IG-11 began to near the cantina, they gunned down two more Stormtroopers as part of Gideon's platoon began to fire on the droid, including two Death troopers. However, IG-11 did not slow down or shift course as the troopers failed to his their target, forcing the death troopers to jump out of the way to safety as IG-11 both gunned down another stormtrooper and abandoned their speeder midair, sending it flying towards part of the stormtrooper battalion, tumbling briefly before erupting in an explosion
that killed several stormtroopers.
Imperial forces fought Djarin as he left the cover of the cantina
Seizing the moment, Djarin and Karga made their way outside while Dune provided him with cover fire, killing several stormtroopers and fighting two death troopers in the process, as IG-11, having killed more stormtroopers, began to themself be hit by blaster bolts from stormtroopers. Noticing this, Djarin hijacked the E-Web previously set up and began unleashing its devastating and deadly firepower on the troopers while IG-11 recovered and continued fighting, until Gideon, who had been watching the chaotic scene unfold, shot the E-Web's
power generator
with his
D-16 blaster pistol
, causing an explosion that injured Djarin. Meanwhile, Dune, who had defeated several stormtroopers that had broken down the door to the cantina, rushed to save Djarin and rushed him back inside the cantina as IG-11 provided cover fire, killing more stormtroopers in the process.
An Incinerator stormtrooper attempted to burn Djarin, Dune, and Karga out of the cantina
As they did so however, Gideon then ordered that the group in the cantina be burned out, getting an
Incinerator stormtrooper
to the scene who promptly began to use their
Flamethrower
on the cantina through the window. After doing so for a short period of time, the Incinerator stormtrooper then made their way to the cantina's entrance as Djarin told the group to escape, offering himself to hold back the troops long enough to escape and die a
warrior
's death. However as the incinerator stormtrooper arrived at the cantina entrance and activated their flamethrower on the group, the child utilized
the force
to block the flames heading towards the group, before then
redirecting
the flames back at the trooper, causing a mini explosion near the trooper that sent them flying and screaming before becoming incapacitated upon contact with the ground. Taking advantage of the opportunity, Djarin was healed and the group escaped into the sewers through a cut in the grate that IG-11 had made and made their way to the mandalorian covert.
Last stand
Imperial stormtroopers surrounded and attempted to question the Armorer
As Imperial troops began to enter the sewers, the group on the run arrived at the covert, where Djarin learned of the massacre of the covert, with the Armorer, who was still at the base, explaining that Imperial troops were responsible. However, as Imperial troops began to near, Dune and the armorer shared that they needed to leave as the Imperials would overrun the sewers soon, causing the group to go on the move again towards the
lava flats
. Indeed, shortly afterward, Imperial stormtroopers overran the covert where they found the armorer, who had chosen to stay, kneeling at her furnace. The troopers pointed their blasters at the mandalorian's head, before one
trooper
asked where the group had went. Receiving no response, the trooper pushed twice more until the armorer attacked the stormtroopers with her forging equipment, eventually emerging victorious from the brawl after leaving four incapacitated on the group and once burning in the forge.
IG-11 emerged from the sewer's mouth to blow up the Imperial platoon waiting there
Meanwhile, the Dune, Djarin, Karga, IG-11, and the Child reached a ferry towards the lava flats and rode it. As they did so, a
platoon
of stormtroopers flanked the exit, hiding just out of view from the tunnel's mouth. However, Djarin managed to discover the platoon's presence through a heatmap, and promptly informed the group, causing IG-11 to begin their
Self-destruct mechanism
set by their manufacturer to avoid capture and to protect the child, fulfilling their base function. Wading through the lava, IG-11 emerged from the tunnel's mouth ahead of the ferry, and with the blasters of stormtroopers aimed at them, exploded, clearing the mouth of the Imperial platoon and allowing the group on the ferry to safely emerge.
While his forces were defeated, Moff Gideon survived his first encounter with Din Djarin
However, as the group disembarked, Moff Gideon began to strafe the group from his Outland TIE fighter while the group ineffectively attempted to shoot back with their blasters. However, Djarin then equipped and utilized a
jetpack
he had received from the armorer before shooting a cable from his wrist launcher once up in the air and inching closer to the TIE's cockpit by moving up the cable. As Djarin attempted to shoot open the cockpit's latch, Gideon swerved the
starfighter
to one side, sending Djarin crashing into one of the TIE fighter's wings. However, Djarin managed to plant an
grav charge
on the ship, and jumped off before safely detonating the explosive, sending Gideon's TIE crashing into the lava flats below. Following this, Djarin returned to Dune and Karga, where he clarified if there were any more stormtroopers to be taken out, to which Dune stated that she believed they had cleared the town of the Empire. After further discussion, Djarin left Nevarro while Gideon was presumed to be dead. Meanwhile, as jawas attempted to scrap Gideon's Outland TIE, Gideon utilized the
Darksaber
to cut open the cockpit and escape his presumed death,
returning to leading his forces soon after.
Combating piracy
Boarded
"
How long until we clear the atmostphere and can make a jump to hyperspace?
"
"
We can't climb until we leave the harbor zone, sir.
"
"
Climb now.
"
―The
Gozanti'
s captain and its pilot
Following the
Clash on Nevarro
, Din Djarin embarked on a search for other
mandalorians
and a
Jedi
to reunite
the child
with. In pursuit of the mission, Djarin visted
Tatooine
, where he met
Cobb Vanth
, who wore
Boba Fett's armor
. To recover the armor, Djarin defeated
Krayt dragon
with Vanth, during which time Djarin learned the story of how
Mos Pelgo
had been affected as the Empire pulled off Tatooine.
After retrieving the armor, Djarin the embarked on a
mission
to bring a
lady
to the
Trask
at only
sublught
speeds,
which he was able to do
despite a complication from
New Republic pilots
who were searching for
Imperial holdouts
that resulted in extensive damage to the
Razor Crest
.
After arriving at a
shadowport
on Trask, Djarin eventually met
Bo-Katan Kryze
, who, with
help
from mandalorians
Axe Woves
and
Koska Reeves
, had attacked multiple transports from
Gideon's Imperial remnant
carrying combat equipment from the shadowport in an attempt to use the seized
weapons
to retake
Mandalore
from the remnant's control. After meeting Djarin, Bo-Katan recruited Djarin to help with her next
raid
in exchange for information on where to find a jedi, who was in fact the
Jedi Outcast
Ahsoka Tano
. After floating the offer, Bo-Katan, along with the rest of her crew, took Djarin to see the
carrier
, where Imperial troops were loading it to depart the next morning. While watching the the freighter, Djarin asked if the plan was to stow away, to which Koska Reeves explained that since they had been hitting so hard, the Imperial remnant was now
scanning
for life forms before leaving as a precaution. Bo-Katan then explained that since the remnant freighter was required be use shipping lanes while near the port and as such could not climb to
orbit
, that would be when they would strike. Djarin then asked if there were and Imperial troops onboard the freighter, prompting Bo-Katan to explain there was a
squad
aboard the freighter at most, before Axe Woves then chimed in that the troopers could not hit a side of a
bantha
. In reality however, the transport had at least forty-six stormtroopers aboard.
Stormtroopers guarding the outside of the
Gozanti
were quickly defeated as the mandalorian hijackers boarded the ship
The next morning, the
Gozanti
-class Assault Carrier departed on schedule, entering the shipping lanes of the Trask shadowport before the Mandalorians then flew up to the carrier and sneakily took down two
stormtroopers
on guard on a walkway outside the
ship
's hull. Upon taking out the two stormtroopers, a third one exited the ship's hull and discovered the intruders, quickly informing the ship's
bridge
over the ship's built-in
intercom
before Reeves grabbed the trooper while activating her jetpack, ultimately dropping the stormtrooper on the
viewport
of the ship's bridge. Upon seeing the trooper on the viewport, the ship's
captain
, having been summoned to the bridge and informed of the
pirates
by the ship's
security officer
, ordered the stormtroopers near the bridge to guard the hall leading to it, before also ordering the ship's
pilot
to seal the hatch leading to the bridge, which they promptly did.
A trio of stormtroopers that responded to the attempted hijacking were attacked by Bo-Katan
Meanwhile, a squad of three stormtroopers moved into the cargo arrived to the hallway just outside the door to the exterior to investigate the security breach. However, as soon as one trooper ordered the the squad to check the exterior door, they were attacked by Bo-Katan, who quickly dispatched of all three of them with a
knife
. The group of mandalorians then made their way deeper into the ship, where more stormtroopers on the level and in a
turbolift
opened fire on the group, forcing them to take cover behind structural supports. However, despite the Imperial troops' suppressing fire, the mandalorians still managed to defeat all of the stormtroopers while slowly advancing and dodging behind cover when necessary.
As the mandalorians proceeded further into the ship, the ship's captain requested an update over intercom on the situation and asked how many intruders there were. One trooper responded that there were ten while blasters went of nearby their location, though the ship's security officer noticed that there were only four life forms aboard, and quickly informed the captain. The trooper over the intercom then informed the bridge officers that the intruders were mandalorian before being shot and killed himself, causing the line to turn off. After a moment of silence on the bridge, the security officer informed the captain that the intruders were headed for the ship's cargo bay, prompting the captain to then ask the ship's pilot how long until they could clear the atmosphere and jump to
hyperspace
. The pilot responded that they could not climb until they left the harbor zone, though the captain ordered the pilot to make the ship climb anyways, causing the pilot to look over at the captain in silence before he repeated the order, which the pilot and security officer then began to carried out.
Holding off the inevitable
"
We need to hold them off until we can make the jump to hyperspace.
"
―The deck officer, to his stormtroopers
As the group of Mandalorians made their way to the cargo bay, a stormtrooper down the hall noticed the mandalorians and called out as much as the group of stormtroopers they were with began laying down suppressing fire on the mandalorians, forcing them to take cover. However, after the mandalorians did as much, Djarin threw a
Smoke grenade
down the hall towards the stormtroopers, and when it went off, the mandalorians left their cover with the heatmaps in their visors activated and shot down all the stormtroopers before making their way to the turbolift at the other end of the hall.
The ship's deck officer and a squad of stormtroopers prepared to defend the cargo bay
Shortly after on the level of the cargo bay, a stormtrooper passed out some of the Imperial remnant's newly acquired
E-22 reciprocating double-barreled blaster rifles
to six stormtroopers. These stormtroopers then made there way to the cargo bay as stormtroopers carrying standard issue
E-11 medium blaster rifles
did the same, getting in position once the arrived while the ship's
deck officer
asked what was happening over comlink, to which the ship's captain responded that the intruders were heading towards the cargo bay, and the troops needed to hold the mandalorians off long enough that they could make the jump to hyperspace and rendezvous with
Gideon's fleet
. After hearing this, the deck officer confirmed he had heard their orders before relaxing their hand with the commlink, pulling out their
SE-14r light repeating blaster
, and relaying their orders to the surrounding stormtroopers while aiming their own
Blaster pistol
at the turbolift exit, joining the surrounding stormtroopers in doing so.
As the mandalorians exited the turbolift, they immediately took out two stormtroopers just outside the lift, causing the deck officer to order that all the doors be closed. Following the order, a stormtrooper attempted to ask a question, but was quickly cut off by the deck officer repeating the order. The stormtrooper, having moved next to a control panel then asked which one, to which the deck officer responded to close all of the doors. However, even after the doors surrounding entry area to the cargo bay closed, the mandalorians continued firing into the bay, causing the deck officer to continue repeating the order as the crew on the ship's deck listened on over the commlink. As another stormtrooper was shot dead, the doors finally closed, trapping the mandalorians and their oncoming blaster fire in the ship's cargo control area.
Imperial troops trapped in the cargo bay were sucked out of the
Gozanti
-class Assault Carrier
With the the intruders trapped, the deck officer sighed in relief and stood up as the surviving stormtroopers turned to look at them before observing the body of one of the fallen stormtroopers. The officer then commed to the bridge that they believed they had trapped the mandalorians, prompting the ship's captain to inquire as to where they had been trapped. The deck officer responded that they had trapped the mandalorians in the cargo control area, momentarily calming the captain, until they fully realized the implications and as such repeated their question to confirm the location. The deck officer repeated their answer to the captain, though they were quickly ejected from the ship alongside the rest of the stormtroopers on the deck shortly after as a result of the mandalorians opening the outer door.
Hearing the situation unfold from the bridge over the deck officer's commlink, which had managed to stay on the ship, the officers listened in silence as the realized what the situation, before the bridge's security officer then requested the deck officer to respond, though they initially did not receive a response. After repeating their question, Bo-Katan, using the deck officer's commlink, responded, before mockingly thanking the Imperials for packing up the gear so nicely and suggesting that the Imperials should imagine what a whole division of mandalorians could do with the gear on the ship. In response, the ship's captain responded to Bo-Katan that she would not get away with the weapons, as even if she had managed to jettison a few crates, the remnant would comb the entire area to hunt her down and kill her. Bo-Katan then responded that her squad would not be jettisoning anything and instead would be hijacking the entire ship, before mockingly suggesting to the captain to put some
tea
on as it would be a
minute
before they were there. However, as Bo-Katan deactivated the commlink, Djarin, who had only agreed to help steal weapons, confronted Bo-Katan about the change in plans. In response, Bo-Katan responded that there was
something
she once owned that she required if she was to rule Mandalore once again, which the Imperials knew the location of.
Long live the Empire
"
How far have they gotten?
"
"
They've breached the cargo hold and taken everything but the bridge. We require immediate backup.
"
"
If they've taken that much of the ship, I'm afraid that's no longer an option. You know what to do. Long live the Empire.
"
"
Long live the Empire.
"
―The captain and Gideon
The
Gozanti
-class Assault Carrier's captain contacted Moff Gideon to request backup
Meanwhile, the ship's captain called
Moff
Gideon
over
hologram
, who promptly asked the captain the issue was. The captain then informed Gideon of the pirate hijacking, prompting Gideon to ask the captain if they had been able to eliminate the hijackers, to which the captain explained they had not, and as such required backup immediately. Gideon then asked if the pirates were the same ones who had hijacked the Imperial remnant's other vessels, which after the captain shared that they appeared to be, prompted Gideon to ask how far the hijackers had gotten. The captain explained that the cargo hold had been breached and everything but the bridge had been taken, before once again requesting back. However, Gideon explained that since so much of the ship had already been taken, that was no longer an option, and as such told the captain to carry out the contingency they already knew, which the captain acknowledged with a nod. Hearing this, the two bridge officers glanced at each other while breathing heavily, before Gideon then chanted the phrase "
Long live the Empire
." The ship's captain then repeated the phrase, before pulling out their own blaster
pistol
and shooting both bridge officers dead and taking control of the ship, plunging it towards the surface of the
estuary
moon
below.
Stormtroopers attempted to protect the
Gozanti'
s bridge
As the ship began to plunge, Bo-Katan realized what the remnant was doing and relayed it to the other mandalorians, before telling them to move quickly. However, as they reached the hall leading to the bridge, stormtroopers guarding the entrance laid down firing on the mandalorians from the cover of the bridge's first doorway, forcing the mandalorians to also take cover. As the stormtroopers continued to shoot suppressing fire down the hallway, Wolves estimated there were six to ten stormtroopers guarding the bridge, two of which wielding
Heavy repeating blasters
. Bo-Katan then tried to convince the group to move, though Wolves then pointed out that the troopers had too much firepower. However, the
Gozanti
-class Assault Carrier began dropping rapidly, Djarin left the cover he was hiding behind with
grenades
in hand and began running down the firepower, the fire of the stormtroopers reflecting off his pure beskar armor. As Djarin reached the middle of the hallway, the firepower from stormtroopers became to much to handle and forced onto the ground, though not before Djarin quickly got on his knees and threw the grenades at the troopers, clearing the hallway of Imperial troops.
Rather than take Bo-Katan to Moff Gideon, the
Gozanti'
s captain chose to kill themself
With the hallway cleared, the mandalorian hijackers made their way to the bridge as the ship's captain continued to pilot the ship downward rapidly. As the bridge's doors opened, they turned to look at the mandalorians before looking forward again, though Djarin quickly grabbed him out of the pilot's seat before Bo-Katan pushed them against one of the bridge's walls and aimed a dagger attached to her armor at their neck. As Djarin and Reeves stabilized the ship, Bo-Katan questioned the captain if Gideon had the Darksaber, to which the captain stated she already knew the answer. After the ship began climbing again, Bo-Katan told the captain that she would let them live, though they had to take her to Gideon. However, the captain then told Bo-Katan that while she might let themself live, Gideon would not. After finishing their statement, the captain utilized an
Electro capsule
in their
mouth
to kill themself, causing Bo-Katan to scream out as their body fell on the floor. Shortly after, Reeves informed Bo-Katan that the captain had sent out a
distress signal
.
Heir to the Empire
"
Grand Admiral Thrawn's return will herald in the reemergence of our military, and provide Commandant Hux enough time to deliver on Project Necromancer.
"
―Captain Pellaeon and Moff Gideon
Grand Admiral Thrawn returned to the Galaxy and waged a campaign against the New Republic
By
9 ABY
,
Brendol Hux worked to deliver on
Project Necromancer
, while across the
new Shadow Council
, Captain Pellaeon worked to prepare the remnant for the long awaited return of Grand Admiral Thrawn
from the
Far galaxy
, which Morgan Elsbeth eventually accomplished.
Upon Thrawn's return, the Grand Admiral waged a
campaign against the New Republic
, but was eventually defeated. The New Republic kept the campaign and its details about its defense effort classified well until the
Hosnian Cataclysm
.
Chalm Plesk
, a
University of Coruscant
historian
, tried to argue his case before the
New Republic Senate
, having been blocked from publishing his work,
The Last War Against the Galactic Empire: On Deployment with the New Republic Fleet
, by various military figures for
years
.
Era of peace
By the generation conceived after the destruction of the second Death Star, these "
victory kids
" would learn of the battles of the past in textbooks, with the struggles of the Galactic Civil War soon becoming nothing more than a distant memory.
Many of the Old Empire's orbital shipyards were destroyed,
and Imperial collectors of stormtrooper helmets, banners, flags and other regalia of the Imperial armed forces often gave themselves outlandish titles—such as the
Avenger of Jakku
,
Emperor's Wrath
, and
Interceptor Fire
—in a quasi-homage to the late Empire. Others admired the fallen regime for its efficiency, vision, and massive military machine.
The First Order
The First Order rose to power as the successor of the Galactic Empire.
With the Empire's collapse, many of the Emperor's servants including many former members of the political, military, and scientific Imperial establishment, fled into the Unknown Regions with some of the regime's greatest secrets. The
Attendants
, a retinue of mute
alien
navigators
commanded by
Snoke
, assisted these former Imperial officers, nobles, technologists
and warlords
in crossing the ancient hyperspace trails.
There, for nearly three decades after Endor, the former Empire would recoalesce itself as the mysterious
First Order
.
By
21 ABY
,
the tattered remnants of the Empire had fled into the farthest reaches of galactic space,
but an obscure command structure had started to emerge within the Unknown Regions. Although the Imperial holdouts based in the Unknown Regions were still scattered during that time, one
Imperial remnant
that followed the growing chain of command remained active in the main space of the galaxy and established an alliance with the
Corporate Sector Authority
.
In time, the remnant situated in the Unknown Regions transformed
from once scattered holdouts
into the First Order,
specifically forming into what would be the
First Order military
.
Situated in the galaxy's vast frontier, the growing First Order rapidly expanded and colonized newly discovered star systems, while new bases, shipyards, and weapons labs began churning out a technologically advanced military in a bid to conquer the galaxy.
Furthermore, a number of surviving Imperial Remnants, which were festering by that time, were brought into the First Order apparatus and helped it bloom.
Armitage Hux became a general in the First Order, and inherited his father's ambition to
train
a
new army of stormtroopers
that was superior to the Imperial generation. Inspired by the memory of the Galactic Empire and composed of various military leaders of the former regime, the First Order
fought for control of the galaxy
against the
Resistance
, a private military force led by General Leia Organa and funded by like-minded senators in the New Republic who believed the Order posed a greater threat than many believed.
The Final Order
Palpatine cheated death and slowly prepared for his eventual return to rule the Galaxy once again with the power of the Final Order
As the First Order took shape during the chaos of the
New Republic Era
reigned, the sith cult known as the
Sith Eternal
, using technology highly advanced science, specifically
bioengineering
,
cloning
, and
behavioral programming
, in turn, all specifically of
Kaminoan
origin, allowed Emperor Palpatine not only return to life, but also achieve
eternal life
, doing so on the Unknown Regions world of
Exegol
. As this happened, the Sith Eternal continued work on preparing the return of the Galactic Empire for Palpatine in the form of the
Final Order
,
of which it's military contained thousands of
Xyston-class
Star Destroyers
, star destroyers each armed with
superlasers
able to destroy entire planets.
To ensure that his return would be unchallenged by remaining Imperial forces, Sidious dispatched
Snoke
, an artificial
strandcast
, to control the First Order and ensure it's loyalty to the Final Order.
Organization
Government
"
Under the Sith…
[the galaxy]
is a
pyramid
. Everyone climbing to the same place, pushing others down so they can ascend. And at its peak, someone waits ready to
destroy
anyone who would dare approach. The only
truly free
person in the entire galaxy.
Emperor Palpatine
. His name, his
Sith
name, is
Darth Sidious
. The name of his apprentice is
Darth Vader
. They are the two
most powerful
people in the galaxy.
"
―Qi'ra
The Galactic Empire was ruled by Darth Sidious, who declared himself Emperor after the Clone Wars.
The First Galactic Empire was a
fascist
dictatorship
led by a
Galactic Emperor
and enforced by a vast
Imperial Military
.
The Emperor acted as the sovereign ruler and ultimate authority in all
political
and military matters of state.
Aiding the Emperor was a
Grand Vizier
, who was the head of the
Imperial Ruling Council
, which in turn consisted of
advisors
who wielded considerable powers over all aspects of the Empire's political and military apparatus.
While supposedly bound by the
Imperial Charter
, Imperial rulers were largely above the law.
The legislature consisted of the former
Republic
Galactic Senate
, renamed the
Imperial Senate
. As an autocracy, the democratic and forward-thinking policies of the former Republic became obsolete within the new corridors of power. The Imperial Senate lost the prestige it once held as the forum for galactic debate
as Palpatine took away whatever authority it had in his march towards total control over the galaxy.
The Senate became a rubber-stamp needed for passing legislation, which could be overruled by the Emperor for any reason,
before it was dissolved entirely by the Emperor
in
1 BBY
,
effectively wiping away the last remnants of the Old Republic. Legislative authority over the various
star systems
and
sectors
passed directly to regional
governors
—effectively transforming the Empire into a
stratocracy
.
Through the Empire, the Sith secretly controlled the galaxy for a generation.
Amongst high-ranking military personnel, a mere reference to Emperor Palpatine was enough to instill fear,
similar to the reputation of his
lieutenant
, Darth Vader,
who was frequently styled as a "
Lord
"
and treated with a similar fearful deference.
Many considered Vader to be Palpatine's right-hand man—a living weapon—and viewed him as the natural successor to the Emperor's legacy.
In reality, the Emperor planned to live forever by uncovering the secrets to immortality via dark-side research into Sith alchemy,
as epitomized by
Project Blackwing
.
Indeed, the Empire lacked a clear chain of succession following both Palpatine and Vader's deaths.
Also in a high position was Wilhuff Tarkin, a ruthless officer whom Palpatine had groomed for a leadership role for years. Palpatine, Vader, and Tarkin formed the dark triumvirate in control of the Empire.
Following the loss of leadership at the Battle of Endor, with Tarkin having died years prior at Yavin, Imperial head of government, Grand Vizier
Mas Amedda
attempted to keep the Empire together, while new pretenders to the Imperial throne announced their ascension to power on a near daily basis.
Owing to a lack of communication, Imperial messages surrounding Palpatine's death were contradictory. Some such as
Grand Moff
Lozen Tolruck
of
Imperial territory G5-623
suggested that the Emperor had escaped the
Death Star II
through miraculous means. Others claimed the even wilder notion that the Emperor was still leading the Empire from beyond the grave.
Some simply refused to acknowledge the Emperor's death for months.
In order to counter the reports of the Emperor's demise, a proxy actor was installed in his place. Eventually, the truth of the Emperor's fate became known to the general citizenry. Declarations of a new Emperor were announced almost every day, but none were able to consolidate any substantial power. Splinter
fleets
and other Imperial officials fought each other to support the various claimants to the throne;
the Empire was thus shattered into numerous warring factions, instead of standing as a single united bloc.
In the months following the
Battle of Endor
,
Grand Admiral
Rae Sloane
became publicly recognized as the
de facto
head of the Galactic Empire and
Imperial Navy
. In reality, power was held by
Fleet Admiral
Gallius Rax
and his
Shadow Council
. On Coruscant, Amedda, the
de jure
ruler of the Empire and proxy Emperor, was held under house arrest by Gallius Rax.
Mon Mothma
refused to accept his surrender unless he could find a way to surrender the entire Empire.
During the covert Imperial-backed
Liberation Day
terror
attack
on
Chandrila
, Sloane's aide
Adea Rite
executed a failed
assassination
attempt on the Grand Admiral per secret orders of Rax after Sloane refused to join his forces. Rax publicly claimed shock at the assumed death of Sloane. Instead of taking the mantle of Emperor, Rax chose the title
Counselor to the Empire
, vowing to act as an interstitial leader until the Grand Admiral's return. He was ultimately killed during the
Battle of Jakku
when his
remnant forces
battled the New Republic.
The Imperial Ruling Council consisted of advisors who governed the Empire on behalf of their ruler.
While Emperor Palpatine held sole and supreme power within the Empire, he typically eschewed the day-to-day affairs of his government to others. In doing so, he was free to conduct extensive research into the dark side of the Force
and enjoy his rule over the galaxy without needing to worry about boring bureaucracy.
As such, the mundane decision-making of the Empire's executive branch was conducted by the Imperial Ruling Council. The council was led by Grand Vizier Mas Amedda and the Emperor's closest advisors:
Sate Pestage
,
Janus Greejatus
,
Ars Dangor
,
Kren Blista-Vanee
and
Prelate
Verge
. These individuals constituted the uppermost tier of the Imperial hegemony and wielded considerable powers over officers within the military.
Greejatus and
Sim Aloo
, another advisor involved in day-to-day governing, were also busy in hunting down Sith artifacts for Sidious.
Moffs, generals and admirals all were answerable to the Imperial cadre, but even the councilors were not always privy to the doings of
Imperial Intelligence
. After the Emperor largely retired from public life, Vizier Amedda and the rest of the Ruling Council took to dispatching processions of Imperial skylimos to maintain an illusion that the Emperor still moved about in public.
As the Emperor's
apprentice
and second in command, Lord Vader acted as the informal Commander-in-Chief of the
Imperial Military
.
Following the Cylo Hijacking, Palpatine elevated Vader to an official position, that of
supreme commander of the Imperial fleet
.
The Emperor's Fist,
as he was referred to by many, was also apparently granted nearly carte blanche to execute subordinates who displeased him.
Even in his new role, Vader had little involvement in administrative matters, which he let the Joint Chiefs handle from behind the scenes,
and adopted a more frontline command style.
Like his master, the
Dark Lord
considered the Empire to be a mere tool for them to use in their quest for greater power in, and understanding of, the dark side.
With the Ruling Council's inability to run the Empire following the deaths of Emperor Palpatine and Lord Vader
in
4 ABY
,
Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax proposed a new executive branch called the Shadow Council that would be a more covert and militaristic body than the Ruling Council it sought to replace. The Shadow Council would consist of various advisors,
admirals
and
generals
with Grand Admiral Rae Sloane as the group's
de facto
leader until her supposed "disappearance."
The Imperial Senate served as the Empire nominal legislative organ until it was disbanded by the Emperor.
Seeing whatever power it had left stripped away by acts like the Public Order Resentencing Directive,
the Imperial Senate was reduced to the lower tier of government and gradually lost the prestige it once held as the forum for galactic debate.
An increasing number of senators became entangled in the web of corruption,
as had begun earlier in the Republic Era; in the days of the Galactic Republic, Sidious had encouraged and exploited those engaged in the pursuit of power and greed as part of his rise to emperorship.
Many senators also became used to simply signing off on the Emperor's demands.
The Senate became a servile institute that applauded Palpatine's decrees and agreed to his demands
without much thought.
That the Senate continued to exist provided the illusion that the Emperor was following "the will of the people"
when, in reality, he acted out of his own interests.
With the once-powerful Senate firmly in Palpatine's hands, passing legislation became a mere formality for the New Order as it agreed to the Emperor's every declaration,
even if Senators
and galactic citizens were made to believe that they had a voice in galactic politics.
In reality, Palpatine held unlimited executive power and was the only one who could formally pass legislation. While most feared to speak out against the Emperor, a few, such as Bail and Leia Organa of Alderaan, actively questioned the accountability of the Empire and its actions, much to the ire of Imperial authorities. Suspicions eventually arose that Leia Organa was using her diplomatic immunity to help the Rebel Alliance. The Empire also lied to the Senate about the
destruction
of
Jedha City
, claiming that it was a mining accident.
The Emperor used Leia's capture aboard the
Tantive IV
, which was known to be carrying technical readouts for the Death Star, as an excuse for disbanding the Imperial Senate shortly before the Battle of Yavin. With the dissolution of the Senate, the last remnants of the Old Republic had been swept away, and the legislative authority over the various systems and sectors passed directly to the regional governors—effectively transitioning governance into military jurisdiction, who answered directly to the Emperor.
Wilhuff Tarkin was a Grand Moff.
Territories from the Core Worlds to the Outer Rim Territories were overseen by regional sector governors, or Moffs, who as part of the Imperial Military wielded much of the power over each sector
and who enforced the Galactic Emperor's rule across each sector.
This stemmed from the
Sector Governance Decree
that Palpatine passed during the later stages of the Clone Wars, when he was Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic.
With only twenty Moffs at one time, they were answerable to the Ruling Council, and all positions were dominated by
humans
. They themselves were outranked by the position of Grand Moff, established in 14 BBY and first granted to Moff Wilhuff Tarkin, who were governors of
oversectors
, areas of space that contained several planetary sectors and were used to keep the Moffs or sector governors in control.
After the Imperial Senate was disbanded, all legislative power went to regional governors just before the Battle of Yavin.
After Emperor Sheev Palpatine's
death
during the Battle of Endor, Imperial territories fell into total unrest, with some military leaders such as
Valco Pandion
appointing themselves Grand Moffs, while corrupt sector governors began accepting payments for the New Republic's allocation of Imperial ships or suing for peace.
Other governors, such as Grand Moff Lozen Tolruck of Imperial territory G5-623 and Governor of the
Anoat sector
Ubrik Adelhard
, broke off from the Empire, forming Imperial remnants.
Administration and bureaucracy
"
With the next quarter's detention estimates expected to increase across the Ryloth sector, any further erosion in local authority may require and increase in our blackline budget.
"
―
Grandi
COMPNOR recruitment poster
COMPNOR Recruitment
by
Dasita Lyros
While the Emperor maintained a galactic armada and commanded the undisputed military, scientific, and economic hegemony in the entire galaxy, the ever-present fear of surviving Jedi haunted Palpatine throughout his reign. In direct response to this feared threat, the Empire employed numerous dark side adepts,
Force-sensitive
individuals of the
Inquisitorius
trained to track down and eliminate any surviving Jedi. Due to the nature of their mission,
Inquisitors
could commandeer local Imperial forces and possessed authority over other officers in the Imperial Military.
The Inquisitorius was governed by Lord Vader,
the Emperor's handpicked second in command,
who oversaw the Empire's
hunting
of the
Jedi Knights
in the
Great Jedi Purge
.
While dark-side leanings and occult goals may have fascinated the Empire's ruler, the banal commonalities of ruling a galaxy-wide Empire never failed to impress upon the Imperial leadership. With the rise of the New Order, many previous governmental agencies were renamed and repurposed, while many official buildings saw themselves remodeled to fit a darker and more angular aesthetic. One such agency was the Republic-era COMPOR, newly dubbed COMPNOR, the
Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
.
COMPOR and the ISB operated under the secretive
Select Committee
.
COMPNOR served as the Empire's chief umbrella agency dedicated to ensuring order and stability for the countless worlds under the Emperor's rule while supporting the new regime through both
propaganda
and intelligence services. Organizations such as the
Imperial Security Bureau
worked under its oversight, with the ISB helping to stamp out potential dissident actions.
Also working under the auspices of COMPNOR was the
Ministry of Information
, designated under the
Coalition for Progress
. The Ministry was primarily tasked with muzzling the
HoloNet News Agency
of anti-Imperial messaging and ensuring the necessary infrastructure for the vast communications systems within the Empire. It also worked to monitor the
Imperial Press Corps
at the grand
COMPNOR arcology
, located in the
Federal District
of Coruscant,
Level 5127
.
The Empire also maintained the
Imperial Information Office
, which employed civilians to help the Empire and its massive data operations in the galaxy, allowing employees the option to cybernetically enhance their performance with
AJ^6 cyborg constructs
.
The
Ministry of Agriculture
and
Imperial Agricultural Collective
oversaw the horticultural aspect of Imperial dominion, with officials on many worlds across the galaxy, including Lothal.
The
Economics Ministry
,
Education Ministry
,
Weather Ministry
,
Transportation Ministry
and
Imperial Survey Corps
also employed numerous citizens across the Empire.
In addition to ruling through fear, the Empire ensured the Outer Rim was faced with hunger while it was expanding into the region, using the tactic on such a large scale it made former Padawan Ahsoka Tano uncomfortable.
Following the Battle of Endor, COMPNOR was reorganized into the
Office of Imperial Promotion, Galactic Truth, and Fact Correction
.
Military
"
Look on our new military not as trespassers or interlopers, but as gatekeepers, here to shore up the Emperor's vision of a pacified and prosperous galaxy.
"
―Wilhuff Tarkin
Stormtroopers could be both the elite shock troops and main infantry of the Galactic Empire.
As the direct successor to the
Republic Military
, the
Imperial Military
comprised vast numbers of
warships
and countless
soldiers
. One of the most recognizable warships was the
Imperial
-class Star Destroyer
, and the mere sight of one usually was enough to bring a troublesome system in line. Rule through fear of force rather than force itself was the driving philosophy throughout the Imperial Military, epitomized by the
Tarkin Doctrine
. Bolstered by the near limitless resources at the Empire's disposal and loyalist companies, such as
Taim & Bak
,
Borstel
, and
Phylon Transport
, corporations, such as
Kuat Drive Yards
and its subsidiary
Kuat Systems Engineering
produced many of the New Order's Star Destroyers, as well as the formidable All Terrain Armored Transport, which was frequently deployed at hot spots throughout the galaxy.
If it meant securing victory in a battle, the Empire was often fine with civilian casualties.
The
All Terrain Armored Transport
walker
became to be feared for its formidable chin-mounted heavy laser cannons, while lighter walkers such as the
All Terrain Defense Pod
featured a single
laser cannon
able to be rotated independent of the walkers front-facing direction, and were deployed primarily to protect Imperial Military interests on backwater worlds.
BlasTech Industries
was the primary weapons producer for the widely used
E-11 medium blaster rifle
.
The
Aratech Repulsor Company
manufactured the
614-AvA speeder bike
, commonly referred to as the Imperial speeder bike, which would eventually be replaced by the
74-Z
.
Sienar Fleet Systems produced many of the Empire's Imperial TIE fighters and variants, such as the
TIE/ad v1
, which was originally unveiled on Empire Day and featured dual chin-mounted laser cannons and the ability to launch warheads such as the
XX-23 S-thread tracker
.
The
TIE Advanced x1
naturally became the next evolution of the deadly v1, as well as the preferred craft of Lord Vader. In addition, the Empire inherited the military assets of the defunct Separatist movement—the most notable of which was the Death Star.
Imperial Army soldiers were the standard infantry of the galaxy-spanning empire.
Although only promoted to supreme commander of the Imperial fleet late in the Empire's reign,
Lord Vader was seen by many as the
de facto
Commander-in-Chief
.
Nonetheless, the Imperial Military had an overall
Supreme Commander
, who formulated the strategy to fit the Emperor's agenda and held control over the entirety of the Empire's war machine. Leading the armed forces under their supervision were highly trained admirals, generals and Moffs who were instructed at the numerous
Imperial Academy
complexes throughout the galaxy. Several veteran
officers
also formerly served in the Galactic Republic, with decorated members such as Wullf Yularen. During the sixth year of the Emperor's reign, twenty Moffs answered directly to the Imperial Ruling Council. The title of Grand Moff was specifically created for Wilhuff Tarkin, while other Moffs, such as
Tiaan Jerjerrod
and
Therbon
sought to increase their reputation with Palpatine.
Some ambitious
Imperial officers
even supported insurgent activities with later plans to betray and destroy them in hopes of a promotion. It was not uncommon for high-ranking officials to maintain private investments, with
Hiram Zataire
owning large plantations and a vineyard on Naboo, and Cassio Tagge being a member of the
House of Tagge
, which held ownership of
TaggeCo
and its mining facility at Lucazec.
One high ranking
Imperial officer
would serve as the
Minister of War
.
The Imperial Navy was tasked with maintaining order across the Empire.
The Imperial Army and Navy were responsible for carrying out the Empire's military operations across the galaxy. Ostensibly dedicated to maintaining law and order,
Imperial Military forces came to be feared and fled from.
Perhaps the most ubiquitously visible element were the Imperial
stormtroopers
. These faceless soldiers were the enforcers of Imperial order, often exercising a "shoot-first" policy.
Having sworn their unquestioning loyalty to the Emperor above all, stormtroopers carried out many of the regime's worst crimes.
Following the Battle of Endor, the Galactic Empire's martial forces began to suffer both resource and personnel shortages, ultimately forcing untrained and untested recruits to fill the front lines in the Imperial war effort, while the once-mighty Imperial Navy of thirteen
Super Star Destroyers
was reduced to one, the
Ravager
, which was ultimately destroyed during the Battle of Jakku.
After the end of the
Galactic Civil War
with the signing of the
Galactic Concordance
, the mobilization and training of stormtroopers was prohibited.
Tarkin noted an "institutionalized suspicion" within the Imperial Military, which he believed was used as a tool by Emperor Palpatine to control the various members of the Empire and its numerous organizations. There also existed an intense fear of the Emperor and Lord Vader, mainly due to harsh punishments, such as death or torture, if a task was not completed in time or resulted in failure.
Imperial patrol transports
and stormtroopers were often utilized as the local police force for numerous worlds, while off-duty personnel could frequent local venues and neighborhoods after signing out of their local garrison. The euphemism "off-base, recreation," was used in the Imperial Military when referring to the visiting of various mistresses or
cantinas
by personnel, while out of consideration it was common for duty officers to ask no questions about such escapades.
Members within the Imperial Army believed that those stationed farthest from the Imperial Center were deemed less important to the New Order, causing many to resent deployments on remote worlds such as
Belderone
.
The Empire sterilized the Geonosian population, bringing the species to the brink of extinction.
The Empire frequently ignored the
Galactic Accord of Systems
, effectively obliberating the rules it laid out
on how to wage war.
The Empire conducted numerous atrocities, often resulting in genocide owing to the Empire's humanocentric tendencies. On Geonosis, the Empire sterilized the planet's native Geonosian population with heavy bombing.
The Lasat homeworld of Lasan was ecologically destroyed by the later banned
T-7 ion disruptor rifles
,
and the entire species was almost wiped out. Furthermore, to make advances in bio-warfare, Vice Admiral
Perwin Gedde
tested ancient diseases on captive worlds, raining sickness from sub-orbital battleships.
A vast distribution network existed within the Empire, with numerous warehouses on various worlds holding thousands of biological agents. Biological testing was conducted on planets such as
Coyerti
or against primitive indigenous populations and
Wookiee
slaves.
While most research and development went unhindered, a few initiatives went out of control. On
Dandoran
, the accidental release of a highly contagious virus under the code name Project Blackwing—a clandestine effort seeking to uncover the secrets to immortality—ultimately led to an
outbreak
across the planet.
Ideology
"
There is no restraint or principle at the center of the New Order. And that is why people admire it. The Empire does all the things that people secretly believe should be done with power.
"
―
Canonhaus
thoughts on the New Order and the Galactic Empire
A propaganda poster featuring the Grand Inquisitor, leader of the Inquisitorius
The
New Order
referred to the
political religion
and nationalist ideology of the Empire and the values of which it stood by. Numerous organizations were folded under COMPNOR, the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order. These included the Imperial Security Bureau, Coalition for Progress, Imperial Intelligence, and
CompForce
, along with science divisions and youth education initiatives.
Rothwell
once remarked that the Empire, as an institution, was unable to be swayed from whatever narrative it convinced itself of, even if it was not true.
The Galactic Empire wielded a vast and powerfully effective propaganda machine to shift the opinions and cultures of numerous worlds across the galaxy. Celebrating the end of the destructive Clone Wars and the
creation of the New Order
, the Emperor founded Empire Day as the national holiday of the Empire. The song "Glory of the Empire" served as the national anthem. Due to physical alterations to Palpatine to make him look younger and more appealing in broadcasts, many citizens did not know of the Emperor's scarred appearance,
nor did they comprehend that the galaxy was under the command of a Sith Lord.
Stormtroopers were seen as brutal enforcers of Imperial suppression to the citizens of the outlier regions of the galaxy.
To enhance its legitimacy in the eyes of the people, the Empire used the
duel in Palpatine's office
to officially support the idea of a "Jedi Rebellion" occurring, and that the
Jedi Order
had attempted to stage a coup intent on taking control of the Republic, thus necessitating
Order 66
. In the years after the proclamation of the New Order, all remaining recordings of the
Jedi
were removed, with many eventually believing and supporting the Emperor's version of events. However, individuals such as
Zaluna Myder
and even Luke Skywalker questioned the Empire's account of the events leading up to their destruction, while those who knew the Jedi in person could not bring themselves to believe in a Jedi-led coup.
Those who attempted to distribute independent publications could be punished with imprisonment without term.
Nonetheless, with the end of the Clone Wars and the dismantling of the Separatist Droid Army, a renewed sense of peace and prosperity returned to the Core.
This peace was aided by the efforts of the Coalition for Progress division of COMPNOR, who took note when artistic media appeared to undermine the Empire, using its authority in one instance to dismantle a statue of
Janyor
of
Bith
on the Outer Rim world of Garel,
or by banning subversive operas such as the
Song of Lojuun
and sending members of the band
Hakko Drazlip and the Tootle Froots
to work in the mines of Kessel after a song with political undertones mocked Lord Vader, with the song being declared contraband as a result.
As a regime, the Empire emboldened those who wanted to be cruel
and excise power over others.
Many stormtroopers would take advantage of the Empire for their own personal gain, including using their station to take advantage of the helpless and those weaker than them.
The regime was also one of imperialism, with the aim to become a universal superpower.
The Sith drew power from the dark side
and fear in the population,
as the Sith believed that fear was an important tool.
Even though Palpatine himself did not display bigotry to aliens, many of his citizens were. Their prejudice for alien groups turned alien groups into scapegoats for past troubles.
Security
Law Enforcement
"
[…]
That is verbatim from the ISB mission statement, and wrong. Security is an illusion. You want security? Call the Navy. Launch a regiment of troopers. We are healthcare providers. We treat sickness. We identify symptoms. We locate germs whether they arise from within or have come from the outside. The longer we wait to identify a disorder, the harder it is to treat the disease.
"
―
Partagaz
, to
Dedra Meero
A Coruscant Security Force police officer during the Imperial Era
The
Imperial Security Bureau
(Shortened to ISB) oversaw internal state security and ensuring the loyalty of citizens to the Empire,
with the task of maintaining stability throughout Imperial territories.
Imperial Intelligence
provided services on their own accord,
and dealt primary with military matters,
such as threat reports, analysis, managing assets who were gathered information, and providing briefings to the
Joint Chiefs
and the
Emperor
.
It fell under the leadership of
Ubiqtorate
, which was the leadership of
Imperial Intelligence
.
Some of the local planetary security forces also had some responsibility in regards to law enforcement.
Mining stations, deep-space outposts, or jails far from the cosmopolitan core often used
Imperial Navy Troopers
as security personnel, who, while still imposing, commanded less respect than their stormtrooper brethren.
Vast trading posts, such as the
Ring of Kafrene
in the
Thand sector
, used mainly stormtroopers to enforce law and order on its streets.
Private contracts were occasionally given to the
Bounty Hunters' Guild
and freelance
bounty hunters
to track down elusive elements within the Empire,
although this practice was largely frowned upon.
In order to support law enforcement communications, the Empire maintained the
Imperial Office of Criminal Investigations
. The Office was responsible for the
Imperial Enforcement DataCore
, which could only be accessed by authorized Imperial personnel or
licensed
bounty hunters.
The
Ministry of Ingress
on Coruscant was the organization responsible for processing immigrants arriving on capital.
The Empire also maintained an
Anti-Terrorism Watchline
for civilian tips about "terrorist" sightings, such as if a civilian discovered a Rebel Alliance operation.
Legal system
An Imperial Judge on Niamos
Shortly after the beginning of the Imperial Era, the Galactic Empire standardized and revised The galactic legal system
by creating the
Imperial Penal Code
, which introduced a tiered infraction system with
Class Five infractions
being the least serious while
Class One Offenses
were the most serious crimes. The penal code overrode local legislation and customs to ensure that Imperial interests were always primary, though the duty to try and incarcerate criminals often fell local
judges
unless a crime had been actively been committed directly against the Galactic Empire.
Despite a defense being allowed civil cases,
in trials against the Empire, defenses were actively disallowed.
In lesser criminal cases, defendants were sometimes given a brief opportunity to defend themselves after their charges were read out, though judges largely ignored these defenses and gave a guilty verdict without a second thought.
No matter if criminals were tried via local or Imperial judges, those found guilty would regardless find themselves brought into the Imperial
prison
system.
Prison system
"
The Imperial Bureau of Punitive Correction revealed plans for a new rehabilitation facility in Wild Space. Inmates will get valuable manufacturing experience as they work to repay their debts to the Empire.
"
―
Dorna Parros
of HoloNet News
Inmates at their workstations in an Imperial factory facility
Following the rise of the Galactic Empire, the new state inherited the various types of prisons from the Galactic Republic's vast and large
prison
system. Yet even still, the Galactic Empire began constructing more bespoke and larger supermax prison facilities known as
Imperial factory facilities
where inmates were used as laborers to fuel the Imperial war machine such as on
Julibar
, where inmates made the "toes" of
All Terrain Armored Transports
. While inmates who had committed serious offenses were either kept in isolation or simply executed, prisoners who had committed mid-level infractions, once assessed as labor worthy, were put to work in Imperial factory facilities as their sentences were long enough to learn specific tasks, but they still had the hope of one day being released. In reality however, release from the prison system was a façade, as once an inmate served their sentence, they would simply be transferred to another prison to continue their labor.
A labor camp on Wobani
Outside of Imperial factory facilities, the Empire also utilized traditional
Labor camps
, such as
one
located on
Wobani
. At these labor camps, the Empire could force prisoners to undertake any type of work, as prisoners believed they were working their way to freedom. The Empire often centralized the locations of prisons, keeping them near each other on so-called "prison worlds" such as the planet
Garen IV
. Despite many inmates simply being transferred to other prisons after their first sentence, some inmates were released.
At labor camps, Stormtroopers were often used as guards,
though at Imperial factory facilities,
guards
and wardens wore black boiler suits with imperial insignia on the right upper arm and white markings along the left shoulder, arm, torso, and leg. The guards were additionally equipped with
zap rods
and
DH-17 blaster pistols
, though Imperial factory prisons were often understaffed. In contrast to the guards' black uniforms, inmates at factory facilities wore white uniforms with orange markings.
Prisoners were brought to prisons via a modified variant of the
V-82 dropship
known as an
Imperial Prison Transport
It was the
Imperial Bureau of Punitive Correction
that oversaw "punitive corrections" for prisoners; while it advertized such measures as ways for inmates to learn new skills while repaying their debts to the Empire,
Imperial prisoners were, out of the public's sight, made into unpaid laborers, constructing material
for the Imperial war machine
or other purposes
in isolated factory prisons
or labor camps.
Outside relations
With other governments
"
It all boils down to one simple question, King Lee-Char. A question that only you, as leader of this planet, have the power to answer. Does Mon Cala wish to remain a part of the great Galactic Empire?
"
―Ambassador Telvar, during negotiations with King Lee-Char
An Ambassador of the Galactic Empire
The
Diplomatic Service
of the Galactic Empire maintained outside relations with several independent affiliates and corporate entities.
Diplomats
moved throughout the galaxy for negotiations and talks.
However, the Empire was more than willing to assert its will
or take what it wanted by force if negotiations did not go its way.
One of its affiliates was the Preox-Morlana, a corporate authority that
politically
administered the
Free Trade sector
and was left operated independently by the Empire. However, high-ranking officials of the Preox-Morlana would attend meetings with the Empire, while Imperial censuses would cover Preox-Morlana worlds.
Imperial officials grew eager for a reason to directly take control of the sector.
In 5 BBY,
that excuse came with the Preox-Morlana's failure to capture Cassian Andor on Ferrix, which exploded into a public enough failure that the Empire could annex its territory.
The Galactic Empire also had diplomatic relations with the
Chiss Ascendancy
in the
Unknown Regions
of sorts through their mutual servant, Grand Admiral Thrawn.
Unknown to the
Chiss
, however, the Emperor came to seek complete control over the Chiss Ascendancy.
The people of the ice moon Madurs were occupied by the Empire despite Prime Minister Dreand Yens thinking he could represent his people through diplomatic talks, during which he had declined the Empire's low offer for the moon's carnium supply. Only realizing how the Empire had set the stage for its operation, while he'd been distracted with lies about a new art expo and negotiations, after the fact, Yens later remarked that his people were wrapped up in chains while he was busy with "polite conversation."
With the criminal underworld
"
None of you think of yourselves as
servants
. You are
proud
. You have carved out dominions for yourselves in the
dark
, won battles of fire and blood. You have territory, wealth, followers dedicated to fulfilling your every whim! But this is
my
empire. Everything you have is due to my
indulgence
. You
do
serve.
"
―Emperor Sheev Palpatine, to the heads of galactic criminal families
The Empire remained invested in and had a relationship with the criminal underworld. The criminal faction
Crimson Dawn
, while secretly under the control of Maul, maintained a working relationship with the Empire. According to
Enfys Nest
of the Cloud-Riders, the Dawn used its profits to terrorize countless systems alongside the Imperials. The Empire also was invested in the affairs of the Pyke Syndicate: when a slave revolt opened up on Kessel, an Imperial blockade was quickly dispatched to settle the uprising. Despite its investment in the criminal underworld,
the Empire would need to combat parts of it, which would distract from other campaigns like the war with the Rebel Alliance.
Above all other syndicates, the Empire had a special relationship with the Hutt Clan, which was allowed to operate outside of Imperial law in return for certain valuable services. The relationship also saw the Empire protect the Hutt Clan's claim over
Hutt Space
.
While the Empire could be very demanding with the Hutts,
clan leader Jabba respected Emperor Palpatine and saw the importance of their work together.
Various other criminal groups desired the relationship with the Empire held by the Hutts, with a chance seeming to open up after the Hutt
attack on the
Executor
manipulated into being by Crimson Dawn.
Months later, Palpatine personally put an end to the
Syndicate War
by contacting the heads of various warring families, reminding them that they were all servants to his will: while they each had their own dominions, the galaxy overall was his to control, thus placing each crime lord under his rule as well. While he did promise any faction that could find Dawn leader Q'ira would rise in his estimation, his talk made it clear that each crime lord needed to think of themself as a servant to his will.
Economy
Overview
"
—we mustn't forget that we have the credits. The credits to spend how we see fit.
"
―Arsin Crassus, financier, who thought that money was the solution to the Empire's problems
The Galactic Empire adopted a planned economy, whereby production and distribution of goods were centralized and directed in the immediate aftermath of the Clone Wars.
This policy of nationalization was called
imperialization
.
Despite this, numerous third-party corporations were allowed to remain, with major loyalist companies Kuat Drive Yards and Sienar Fleet Systems producing the majority of the Empire's land and space-based craft. Companies aligned with the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars, such as the
Techno Union
and Trade Federation, were absorbed by the newly formed Empire, and all Federation accounts plundered by Imperial financier Arsin Crassus.
By 1 BBY, both
Incom Corporation
and the
Corellian Engineering Corporation
had been nationalized.
Senator Mon Mothma stated that the Empire made use of
kleptocractic economics
,
which entailed those in power claiming riches for themselves like
thieves
,
all while the population was controlled via populist messaging, such as scaremongering
and propaganda.
In truth, the average worker was able to be exploited,
particularly in the Outer Rim, so as to support the state and the wealthy. Among the population, it was the wealthy, particularly those in the Core Worlds,
who the Empire was actually kind to.
In addition to the
Imperial Mining Institute
, the Empire held a close association with Mining Guild.
Towards the end of the Galactic Civil War, Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax began to nationalize all aspects of the Imperial production chain in the months following Endor, but the attempt proved unable to save the dying Empire. The continued funding of the Imperial Military was hotly disputed. While briefly considered, it was decided that plundering the InterGalactic Banking Clan and other monetary bodies would plunge the galaxy into an economic depression.
In 19 BBY, the Republic
credit
was replaced by the Imperial credit, which became the standard
currency
in circulation throughout the Empire. With the advent of the New Order, credits from the time of the Galactic Republic became worthless as they were phased out.
Raising enough money for day-to-day life proved to be difficult for many Imperial citizens, yet the Empire's propaganda made the regime seem more prosperous than it actually was. In one recorded speech, Senator
Daho Sejan
blamed economic and security issues on "terrorists" who hid among everyday citizens.
As of 9 BBY,
the Empire's taxation of the Outer Rim had become oppressive.
Since the Imperial credit was a fiat currency, credits from the Empire gradually lost their value following the formation of the New Republic.
Infrastructure
"
The Empire sat at the center of the galaxy like an enormous black hole—forever sucking wealth and resources inward. Coruscant glittered while those at the edges suffered. Worlds who had nothing left to give were abandoned to their fate and allowed to go dark. This is how Palpatine and his many advisors viewed the natural hierarchy of their New Order.
"
―Beaumont Kin,
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
A vast transportation network to connect Palpatine's vast Empire served as the primary means of both civilian and military transport. Interstellar commerce and warfare primarily occurred along one of several major
hyperspace lanes
—considered trans-galactic highways—with their knowledge and existence dating back to well before the former Galactic Republic. With the major trade routes considered safe for hyperspace travel, their control was vital for maintaining an effective means of defense and galactic dominance. In smaller systems, hyperspace beacons could transmit their coordinates, allowing starships to make quick jumps to and from the system. As a result, destroying them could hinder enemy mobility and response times. Serving this vast system were spaceports, facilities where starships would dock and refuel, restock and rearm. Spaceships serving as fuel stations also existed in the vastness of the galaxy, along with major shipping ports such as
Horizon Base
.
An Imperial cargo ship docked at a space port
The
Imperial Transit Authority
oversaw transportation across the Empire while the
Imperial Boarding Inspection and Customs
handled customs enforcement on those craft, as well as inspecting the starships themselves.
Owing to the immense size of the Empire, a vast, complex logistical network was maintained by the Imperial hierarchy, and as a result was both immensely interconnected and extremely fragile. Locales such as
Mardona III
served as "warehouse worlds": planets turned storehouses for millions of metric tons of goods to fuel the Empire.
Imperial cargo ships
often transported these resources across the galaxy; slovenly and low-quality personnel, or fresh recruits just out of the Academy, often crewed these vessels, owing to their rather menial task.
The
T-44 landspeeder
saw use by members of the Imperial Military for transport. Despite Imperial propaganda painting the picture of a government interested in uplifting life for all who fell under the Imperial flag,
the Imperial system, its taxation program, and general expansion were built around uplifting life in the Core Worlds, extracting the wealth of the outer regions and funneling it inward.
As once noted by Lando Calrissian, the entire galaxy ran on Tibanna gas as a vital fuel source. As such, the Imperial annexation of Cloud City
and Bespin overall was an advantage to the Empire.
After the Battle of Endor, the lockdown of the Anoat sector—where Tibanna gas was found in large quantities, such as on Bespin—proved to be a danger to the young New Republic, which suddenly was cut off from a major source of fuel in its earliest days. According to Calrissian's fears, the Empire would effectively keep itself in control of the galaxy by maintaining control over the galactic fuel supply, such as through its continued rule over Bespin. Mon Mothma and Leia Organa further suspected the Empire would attempt to take over vital resources—whether they be food, fuel, or building materials—in order to keep itself in control of the galaxy.
Communications and media
Overview
"
Citizen reporting has been a key tool in maintaining peace and order across the Empire.
"
―
Alton Kastle
COMPNOR-approved propaganda poster by Resinu Santhe-Caltra
Acquiring much of the galactic communications systems from the former Galactic Republic, the Empire nationalized the HoloNet News and its galaxy-spanning broadcasts and hyperspace-powered communication systems. The new
Imperial Holovision
was overseen by the Ministry of Information, who in tandem with the Imperial Press Corps, ensured reporting stayed in line with "acceptable" news coverage and government policy.
While the Imperial holoNet was the only state-sanctioned news agency, local news outlets that supported the Galactic Empire were allowed to remain.
Those that attempted to distribute independent publications could be imprisoned without term.
It was also law that the Imperial HoloNet be broadcast at all times in every drinking establishment.
As expected, the galactic HoloNet remained one of the most-viewed news stations in the galaxy, forming public opinion and reporting on pro-Imperial issues and events. When military objectives trumped civilian information, the Empire shut down the local HoloNet in varying sectors, and prioritized HoloNet transmissions to the military, giving Palpatine and his armed forces near-instantaneous communication across the entire galaxy.
The Empire even turned leisure activities, such as sports broadcasts, into extensions of its will: the popular
grav-ball
sport was turned into little more than a recruitment tool for the Empire during its rule.
Following the Battle of Endor, the New Republic abolished the Empire's restrictions and censorship on HoloNet and encouraged the creation of several HoloNet channels including the
Queen of the Core Network
to win over the galactic public after it assumed control by 5 ABY.
Controlling history
"
The Empire's been erasing the Jedi from history, step by step. First they said the Jedi tried to murder the last chancellor—Palpatine, before he was Emperor—in some sort of coup at the war's end. It's what I grew up hearing.
"
"
I heard that version from the older officers. It never made any sense because—
"
"
Because you were taught there weren't many Jedi to begin with, right? That they were relics, mostly forgotten? That's the trouble when they keep changing the story. Nah, there were thousands of them, and real influential in the Republic. Believe me, you hear a lot about the legend of the Jedi and the Force when you join the Rebel Alliance.
"
"
How do you know it's not all propaganda on your—on the rebel side?
"
"
I don't. That's the nasty thing about the Emperor changing history. Leaves you doubting, doesn't it?
"
―
Nath Tensent
and
Yrica Quell
In order to secure the "unlimited power"
he so desperately longed for,
Palpatine's empire needed to take control of knowledge through the spread of information
and manipulation of how history was taught.
For example, in regards to the Jedi Order and its systematic eradication, Palpatine had openly branded the Jedi Order as traitors
since the declaration of his regime,
and subsequent propaganda spread via the Imperial-controlled HoloNet maintained that image.
In a rally held during the first days of the Imperial Era, Grand Vizier Mas Amedda claimed that the Jedi had been behind the "Separatists plots" that had so recently rocked the galaxy, but he promised Palpatine had seen through their lies to deliver the galaxy into a new age of freedom.
Imperial propaganda painted the Jedi as traitors who had subverted democracy, disrupted peace, and caused the Clone Wars with their strange abilities
in an effort to usurp control of the galaxy for themselves.
The aim of the Empire was to purge the Jedi from the memories and thoughts of its citizens beyond just wiping out its remaining members.
Madelin Sun reflects on the Galactic Empire's manipulation and corruption of history.
As noted by
Lyra Erso
, the Jedi seemed to vanish from galactic memory and enter myth over the course of a few weeks, with very little grief towards the people who had once protected the Republic.
The historian
Madelin Sun
believed that the Empire's successful suppression of the Jedi was an example of its rule by fear. As she reasoned, beyond Palpatine preying on peoples' fears by claiming the Jedi were traitors who had started the war, the Jedi Order appeared to embody their best selves, which reminded the galaxy at large that they were not their own best selves: for how much people loved the Jedi at one time, they also hated the Jedi for reminding them of that. Sun also believed that the Empire exploited its willingness to kill, imprison its citizens, and deploy its massive military in the campaign to eradicate the Jedi from memory. By simply passing laws to outlaw the Jedi, help the Jedi, use the Force, or even know about it, the Empire generated a fear of implied force in its population. After wiping out those who were willing to die for their beliefs, those who survived were people who, in their fear, just wanted to get by and so would not pass down knowledge of the Jedi. To Sun, the Jedi were not "forgotten" but instead became a de facto thought crime punishable by death. With no one willing to speak of the Jedi, knowledge of the Order largely died off in a generation.
With the Order's reputation ruined
and existence all but covered up as a thought crime,
the Empire was able to reshape history by altering documents
and how history was taught,
reshaping history itself to its designs and leaving the Jedi to be regarded as "outlaws"
who were supposedly small in number.
Palpatine also claimed the Jedi Temple as the Imperial Palace,
transforming a once-major Jedi building into a symbol of the Empire
and claiming control of the Jedi Archives, whose contents could have challenged anti-Jedi propaganda.
As per Palpatine's claims in the Proclamation of the New Order,
the Empire's initial history of the Clone Wars held that Jedi "mystics" launched a coup and attacked Palpatine, only to be defeated. Their conspiracy, according to the propagandized history, forced Palpatine to transform the Republic into the Empire. However, younger Imperials were taught a version of history that minimized the role of the Jedi, painting them as relics of a bygone time and a small-scale cult during the Republic's final years. One Imperial citizen who grew up with that version of the story,
Yrica Quell
, sometimes heard the prior claims from older Imperial officers, creating confusion in her mind because she had been raised on the idea the Jedi were much less important. The history taught to Quell also claimed that Palpatine promised to create a better future out of a corrupt, decayed republic, with Quell believing he had succeeded; according to the history she was taught, there was a reduction of petty crime and corporate influence in the wake of Palpatine's rise to power, with local governments also forced into the Imperial hierarchy if they hurt or failed their populous. However, even Quell heard people say Palpatine had been militarizing the Republic to grab power, with everything that came in its wake a mere side effect of his personal ambition.
Indeed, different forms of Imperial propaganda could contradict each other; beyond the example of trying to limit the Jedi Order's role in history,
some narratives
painted the Jedi as the creators of the Confederacy of Independent Systems
—having used the supposedly "former" Jedi Dooku to form the Separatist state
—as part of their supposed coup to overthrow the Republic,
whereas other Imperial claims separated the Jedi and CIS, depicting the Jedi as merely using the war to grab at power and turning Dooku into a lone figure
who acted out of "craven ambition."
Even still, Dooku's known status as a former Jedi helped to sell the image that the entire Order could have betrayed the Republic.
While the idea that the Jedi had created the Clone Wars was a central
and foundational piece of Imperial propaganda,
some citizens expressed a hate for the Jedi on the belief that the Order had failed to prevent or effectively the win the war. Nonetheless, their cries of hatred had the same result as those who believed in the story of Jedi betrayal.
Science and technology
"
The universe is old. We are running out of time. I desire progress...
"
―Doctor Cylo-V
The Death Star was one of the Empire's greatest engineering projects.
One of the Empire's most
ambitious scientific developments
was the Death Star, a moon-sized, deep-
space
mobile
battle station
designed to fire a single planet-destroying superlaser powered by massive
kyber crystals
and built in
orbit
of Geonosis. Started by the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars and continued under the leadership of Krennic, who oversaw the
Imperial Military Department of Advanced Weapons Research
, which was responsible for the completion of the long-delayed project, this was supported by a complex logistical network of bases.
The Empire was also believed to have created many other superweapons, such as the
Onager
-class Star Destroyer
, a type of
capital ship
that utilized a kyber-crystal superweapon; the
Mass Shadow Generator
, which was rumored to exist in realspace and hyperspace; the
Torpedo Sphere
, a
siege platform
and space station; or the rumored
Asteroid Dreadnought
, which was camouflaged as
space rock
; the
Omega Frost
, an interstellar freeze ray; and the
Electro-Proton Bomb/Defoliator
, which was based on the Republic's
electro-proton bomb
from the Clone Wars.
The
Dark trooper program
, deemed a failure, led to the Empire's disillusionment with battle droids.
Operation: Cinder
oversaw the use of
climate disruption arrays
, which were
satellites
modified to provoke storms once the beam reached through the
planet
.
Experimental starships including the TIE/IN interceptor and TIE/D Defender pushed the Empire's technical capabilities, and introduced concepts and technology that would be reincorporated in future ship designs throughout the New Republic Era.
A group of
Sith scientists
used
alchemy
and science to develop Project Blackwing, to achieve immortality, with the project being based out of a
secret research facility
on Dandoran. However, the project went awry when a virus known as "the Sickness" was accidentally created and killed its hosts, turning their bodies into intelligent cannibalistic
zombies
known as
Undead Troopers
.
Imperial scientists working on
Project Celestial Power
also tried to contain
dark-matter
quintessence
.
The Emperor himself had planned to further push the boundaries of what could be accomplished without the Force, creating cybernetically enhanced supersoldiers under the development of
Doctor Cylo
at his heavily guarded
research base
. Owing to Vader's failure to protect both the first Death Star and Weapons Factory Alpha, Palpatine planned to eventually form an army of cybernetic soldiers as his primary enforcers, reducing Vader's position as apprentice to a mere ceremonial role.
The
Imperial Mining Institute
also existed under the New Order, while the Imperial Department of Military Research helped boost the combat forces of the Empire, developing the widely used stormtrooper armor and the
IT-O Interrogation Unit
, along with the
9D9-s54 Dianoga spy droid
.
The Empire also initiated
Project Harvester
, a clandestine operation designed to root out children with Force sensitivity and detain them at an underground facility connected to the
Arkanis Academy
, located on the Outer Rim world of Arkanis.
Society and culture
Overview
"
Can you stop thinking of yourself as a native of your home planet and begin thinking of yourself as an Imperial first? An Imperial only? Can you accept that protecting and serving the world you came from is best accomplished by strengthening the Empire to which it belongs?
"
―The introductory speech at the
Royal Imperial Academy
on
Coruscant
The transition from the Republic to the Empire was also marked by major changes in the new government's architectural aesthetic. While the democratic government favored sweeping lines in
its architecture
, Palpatine's authoritarian regime preferred bold and
brutalist
designs.
Palpatine himself enjoyed the look of such architecture due to the brutal nature it embodied.
This brutalist style first emerged before the foundation of the Empire during the Clone Wars, when the
architect
Orson Krennic transformed the municipal grounds on Coruscant into military command centers.
A prime example of Krennic's work was the
Republic Center for Military Operations
.
Meanwhile, the
ISB Central Office
on Coruscant broke from the trend of darky colored Imperial installations with white conference rooms and hallways, possibly reflecting a degree of "ideological purity."
Grav-ball
was a popular sport within the Galactic Empire, with many worlds hosting teams that occasionally competed with one another.
Underground gladiatorial games existed within Imperial territories, the
Outer Rim Carve-up
and
Stormblade Bloodfest
being some of the organized occurrences of the sport within the early years of the Empire.
Humanocentric single-species domination was not coincidental, but intended
under the
High Human
cultural model.
Imperial propaganda actively supported state-sponsored ethnocentric
xenophobia
and fear-mongering. To the Empire, "aliens" were by and large unwelcome within its order, with aliens being seen as "different" and "strange." As such, the Empire treated nonhuman segments of its populations as serfs, slaves, or obstacles needing to be tamed, removed, or ignored. The Empire supported the idea that aliens were untrustworthy—unlike humans—and behind their veneer of innocence lurked a vicious monster. The Imperial propaganda machine was so effective in its message that even near-human species exhibited an inherent distrust towards nonhuman populations.
Since the Empire looked down on aliens, it was rare for aliens to serve as Imperial officers.
Nevertheless, some nonhumans were known to occupy lofty roles within the Empire, such as the
Chagrian
Mas Amedda, who served as the Empire's Grand Vizier,
the Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn,
and the
Pau'an
Grand Inquisitor, the leading figure in the Inquisitorius during the Age of the Empire.
Still, Thrawn noticed that he faced adversity due to his non-human origins and the fact that he was not linked to a major political family.
One of the main origins of the anti-alien belief was that during the
Clone Wars
most of the
separatist leaders
were aliens from sectors far from the
Core Worlds
. That made the
humans
distrustful of the other
species
of
the galaxy
during the
Imperial Era
.
In addition to state-sponsored discrimination against a predominantly nonhuman galaxy, the Empire discouraged the learning of alien languages and cultures such as
Ithorese
in an effort to destroy foreign cultures, and sought to impose high "Imperial standards" for its citizens.
The destructive nature of the Clone Wars and use of droid armies by the Separatist Alliance fostered and expounded anti-droid bigotry so well into the galactic psyche that it would endure well into the Imperial Era.
The Empire saw droids as servants and tools, to be discarded and thrown away when no longer useful.
The Galactic Empire was not only xenophobic towards the alien species of the galaxy, but some Imperial officers displayed similar sentiment towards human groups whom they deemed to be of lesser social standing. Some human Imperial officers, especially those from the Core Worlds, displayed disrespect towards humans who hailed from regions like
Wild Space
and the Outer Rim, including Lothal.
The Empire also turned against the Mandalorians, who rejected Imperial leadership and thus were targeted for extermination.
The
clones
of the planet
Kamino
also began to be discriminated against by the Empire after they were seen as relics of the Old Republic that were no longer useful and could be discarded,
causing many ex-clone soldiers to become unemployed.
The Imperial education system emphasized science through initiatives for the youth.
Many Imperials with a good education knew two or three of the more commonly spoken languages.
Demographics
"
The Empire improves every system it touches. Judge by any metric. Safety, prosperity, trade, opportunity, peace. Compare Imperial rule to what is happening now.
"
―The Client
As a pan-galactic Empire, the Empire was home to countless alien species across the galaxy. In terms of preference, the population of the Empire was dominated largely by humans, a species native to the Imperial capital world Coruscant.
Humans were the most common species in both the Imperial Military and the Empire's political circles, with the highest echelons of the New Order almost entirely consisting of the species.
To increase the human population and military manpower, several Imperial breeding programs were enacted in the early days of the Empire. They encouraged people to start and grow families, and rewarded them for it. While the Empire supported traditional heterosexual relationships, it did not care about the individual sexual preferences of its citizens, provided that such individuals kept their affairs behind closed doors, and did not interfere with any of its family programs.
As a human-dominated government, the Galactic Empire supported
Galactic Basic Standard
and its
Aurebesh
/
High Galactic
writing system. Learning of foreign languages and cultures for the general populace was disapproved of.
Officially, all organized religion and belief in the supernatural was outlawed.
In reality, the vast size and scope of the Empire meant that thousands of religions were practiced across its vast territory. The
Seswenna sector
alone had over three hundred distinct religions with active practitioners, all officially recognized by the local Imperial administrator.
Chief of the Imperial Navy
Conan Antonio Motti
himself claimed to be a "man of faith," and believed that Imperial unity could only be strengthened through cooperative and constructive dialogue among citizens following diverse spiritual traditions.
Underground religions surrounding the extinct Jedi such as the
Church of the Force
and the
Guardians of the Whills
continued to exist despite their perilous closeness to the Jedi of old.
Slavery
"
We have a surplus of slave labor—but what to do with it? Could the Wookiees be farmed for their meat? Presently it's stringy and tough, but maybe if they could be fattened up, or modified in some way—crossbred with another species, perhaps, like the Talz.
"
―Commandant
Theodane Sardo
The Empire's rise saw the gradual repeal of Republic anti-
slavery
laws.
Species such as the Wookiees were declared
non-sentient
. Subsequently much of the Imperial war machine was built on the shoulders of the enslaved Wookiee population, who saw their homeworld of Kashyyyk ecologically devastated.
Within the Empire, non-humans were routinely subjugated, with many sent to numerous slave-labor camps across the galaxy, one of the most infamous being the
spice mines of Kessel
, where Wookiee slaves, prized for their strength, were sent to mine the valuable spice located in the planet's interior. It was a literal death sentence for many, with an expected survival time of three months.
Humanoid species often survived longer, ranging from one to two years in the mines.
Abusive and exploitative, the Empire forcibly relocated settlers and pressed them into Imperial factory work. Resisting could see one's family kidnapped and killed.
Unemployment in strategic resource systems was declared unlawful.
On Ryloth, isolated settlements often existed with little or no knowledge about the Empire at large, with those same camps oftentimes being disbanded and their inhabitants relocated to slave-labor camps when needed. Escaped slaves or displaced persons often made up these camps, similar to Tarkintown on Lothal.
Those that resisted Imperial rule could see their whole planet devastated and species reduced to near-extinction, such as the reptilian
Bodach'i
, who were forced to work in spice mines on planets such as Kerev Doi.
Astrography
Administrative divisions
"
Was it not you who suggested the creation of oversectors and oversector governance as a means of enhancing our control?
"
―Emperor Palpatine, to Wilhuff Tarkin
While the Empire utilized the senators of the Imperial Senate to maintain control of their respective systems, control was gradually given over to Imperial sector and planetary governors, or Moffs. Grand Moffs were charged with overseeing control of oversectors, which comprised numerous sectors,
and the Imperial Navy was organized into sector fleets.
Rather than direct annexation, many of the Empire's territories were controlled through puppet states, alliances, and protectorates, most notably the Corporate Sector.
The local governing bodies that were in the Imperial Senate, to which had autonomy were downgraded to a mostly ceremonial and powerless role,
as were the senators they sent, who all served under a Moff's oversight.
On the border of the Mid Rim and Outer Rim Territories, an invisible boundary was considered the "front line" against the lawlessness of the Outer Rim.
The Imperial sphere of influence ended shortly before reaching
Hutt Space
, resulting in its reputation as a haven for smugglers, bounty hunters and other denizens of the galaxy.
The Empire also maintained strategic resource systems, in which industrial surveillance, heightened security measures and higher work quotas were in effect, and were often placed under the supervision of influential barons, moguls and efficiency experts.
Early holdings and expansionism
"
You can stand to see the Imperial flag reign across the galaxy?
"
―Saw Gerrera, to Jyn Erso
As the successor state to the Galactic Republic, the Galactic Empire's authority spanned most of the known galaxy,
with the Core Worlds housing some of the richest and most affluent planets in the Empire, with gradual economic decline and lawlessness appearing the further one ventured from the Core. While the Emperor planned to claim the Outer Rim, the logistical complexities of such a feat soon became apparent. Many of the exoplanets were too rough, wild, or strange to ever be brought under Imperial yoke. Thus, many were relegated to hold meager garrisons or host temporary military excursions. As a result, exploitation, weapons testing and military installations dotted the Outer Systems, while Imperials often came for the drinking, smoking, gambling, or black-market goods.
Located in the Galactic Empire was the
extragalactic
holding of
Kamino
,
which was in a
star system
that straggled south of the
Rishi Maze
satellite galaxy and beyond the larger galaxy.
Early into its reign, the Empire expanded into the Outer Rim, creating a presence that was far greater than what former Padawan Ahsoka Tano had expected; after fleeing from the suddenly occupied small moon of Raada, which the Imperials had taken over in order to exploit its farmland, she found that every star system she passed through had been taken over, with a controlling Imperial presence installed in each. As Tano observed, such Imperial holdings were not merely bases constructed to look over local governments, but oppressive extensions of the Empire, controlling the local resources and populations without any concern for their needs nor personal rights.
A devout Imperial, meanwhile, would allege the Empire improved every star system it entered with—as "the Client" put it—trade, safety, prosperity, and "peace."
However, large scale Imperial peace came at the cost of one's personal freedoms
and said "secruity" depended greatly on punishing whatever it was that the Empire deemed to be "wrong."
Seeking the source of the dark side, the Empire established numerous labs and communications stations on distant moons and asteroids beyond known space, with Emperor Palpatine believing his power was drawn from beyond the galaxy.
The Imperial Survey Corps helped Palpatine chart the unexplored regions of the galaxy.
Palpatine maintained relations with the Chiss Ascendancy, a regional power located within the Unknown Regions through its ambassador, Mitth'raw'nuruodo, better known as Thrawn. Palpatine accepted Thrawn as his adviser on matters involving the Unknown Regions, and hoped they would both fight potential future threats from the Unknown Regions.
Retreat and collapse
"
The factories of Kuat have been bombed into submission, and the shipyards of Xa Fel, Anadeen, and Turco Prime are all either contested or already lost. But the Outer Rim will be our savior—and it will be the strangling cord we tie around the neck of the New Republic. We already have three worlds under our sway there: Zhadalene, Korrus, and Belladoon.
"
―Gallius Rax, to the Shadow Council
Following the Battle of Endor, the Galactic Empire steadily began to shrink, losing numerous worlds to the recently formed New Republic, with Imperial assets and academies on worlds such as
Uyter
destroyed in bloody warfare. With its losses and failures, the Empire retreated to numerous fallback positions on strategically unimportant worlds such as Naalol, often drawing the New Republic into long and indecisive conflicts, forestalling its slow push toward the Core Worlds. Despite these efforts, the Republic had already established its capital on Chandrila, a planet located within the Core.
The Empire made three successive sieges to retake the Mid Rim world of Naboo, birthplace of Palpatine and thus an influential rallying point for the Empire's shattered forces, but failed.
A few months after Endor, the Imperial Future Council met on Akiva, a planet in a sector of the Outer Rim still under Imperial control.
Roughly two months after the Battle on Akiva, the Galactic Empire's territorial possessions were rapidly shrinking and described as a "patchwork quilt" by Grand Admiral Rae Sloane. Numerous systems left the Empire or waged their own resistance movements, declared their independence, and established their own fiefdoms or joined the New Republic. Criminal syndicates flourished in this atmosphere of conflict, especially the reptilian pirate Eleodie Maracavanya, who had captured the Super Star Destroyer
Annihilator
and used it to forge her own criminal empire. Various moffs and governors rebelled against the Empire, while more and more people asked what exactly the Empire
was
. Agencies, personnel, and whole planetary systems started to drift apart, each adopting differing tactics and methods for combating the New Republic, and each other.
By this time, the Empire had already lost numerous systems to the New Republic's lighting-fast strikes, and factionalism had begun to scar any attempts to reclaim lost territories. The New Republic had already made headway into the Core Worlds. The last sector of the Outer Rim under Imperial control was a thin region of space known as the
Exterior
, along with the planets
Zhadalene
,
Korrus
, and
Belladoon
. With the shipyards of Kuat, Xa Fel, Anadeen, and Turco Prime having already been lost or contested, Rax planned to use the Empire's last foothold in the Outer Rim as a "strangling cord" to tie around the New Republic. While the Chandrila terror attack demoralized the New Republic, it failed to turn the tide of the war against the Empire, which soon after lost Kashyyyk following an uprising led by Han Solo and Chewbacca.
After their defeat at Jakku and the signing of the Galactic Concordance, some Imperial warships began jumping into the Unknown Regions to escape the prying eyes of the New Republic. This was made easier since parts of the Unknown Regions had previously been explored by military scout ships surveying star systems and blazing hyperspace routes known only to a select few.
Behind the scenes
Development
The Galactic Empire first appeared as the main antagonist of the first
Star Wars
movie,
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
, in 1977, where it was named the "evil Galactic Empire" in the opening crawl.
The Empire's origins and role in the
Star Wars
universe were subsequently expanded by various
Expanded Universe
literature and media over the next four decades. Following the
Lucasfilm Story Group
's decision in May 2014 to reboot the
Star Wars
universe.
Financial engineering professor Zachary Feinstein calculated that the hypothetical GDP of the Galactic Empire would be 4.6 sextillion per year.
According to the author
Jason Fry
, the Galactic Empire in the newly established canonical universe was not openly xenophobic and misogynistic, unlike the Legends version. However, he acknowledged that some of the Empire's most devoted supporters were xenophobes, like his character
Janus Fhurek
, a minor antagonist in his 2014 junior novel
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
. In his view, the presence of prominent Imperial female characters in
John Jackson Miller
's novel
A New Dawn
and
Star Wars Rebels
precluded the idea of a misogynistic Empire.
Pro-human xenophobia within the Imperial Military, government bureaucracy,
and society
has since been confirmed
in reference guides like
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
and
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
,
and novels like
Thrawn
.
Thrawn
clarified that Imperials were not officially allowed to disrespect non-humans, with General Orders to Imperial cadets outlining that, but Imperials did so all the same.
Canonical sources ultimately confirmed that human superiority was an intentional push from the Empire
under the High Human cultural model.
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
went onto suggest that misogyny did exist within the Empire as well.
Inspirations
The Republic's transformation into the Empire is perhaps modeled after the transformation of the
Roman Republic
into the
Roman Empire
; the Roman Republic was transformed because of war, infighting, and two of its leaders,
Julius
and
Augustus Caesar
. Other reasons for the transition were based on the transformation of the
First French Republic
into the
French Empire
by
Napoleon
(after a coup), and the
Weimar Republic
into the Third Reich. Lucas, during the 2005 Cannes film festival, implied that the similarities between these historical elements, and to a lesser extent America's fighting in the 2003 Iraq War, were deliberate as part of Lucas' philosophy that democracies tend to be turned into dictatorships at the people's willing support, a philosophy that he implied had stemmed from American involvement in the Vietnam War.
Similar to the Soviet Union under Stalin (specifically the aftermath of Stalin's death), as soon as Palpatine met his first demise at the Battle of Endor, various insergencies throughout the Empire were attempted before being put down by the Imperials. One insergency in particular, the
Coruscant Uprising
, had notable similarities to the
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
that commenced shortly after Stalin's death. On a related note, series creator George Lucas cited that Emperor Palpatine's arrival on the Death Star in
Return of the Jedi
was based of the military parades in "May Day" in what was at the time Soviet Russia.
George Lucas, however, indicated in
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
,
The Making of Return of the Jedi
, the
Revenge of the Sith
commentary, as well as the Empire of Dreams and the Cannes Festival showing of
Revenge of the Sith
that the Galactic Empire was primarily based in part on the American forces during the Vietnam War, when citing that the Ewoks and Rebel Alliance were based on the Viet Cong and also claiming his primary 
inspiration for the Empire's ruler, Palpatine, was then-president Nixon, and also implied in
The Making of Star Wars
that the Empire was essentially American in 1983 (ten years after he started writing the drafts for
Star Wars
) where "Nixonian gangsters" assassinated the Emperor and used a rigged election to obtain power as well as exploited various groups to maintain power as deliberately letting crime escalate to such an extent that people would welcome a total control police state.
Lucas himself was quoted in a interview conducted in 2005 at Skywalker Ranch that: "It was really about the Vietnam War, and that was the period where Nixon was trying to run for a [second] term, which got me to thinking historically about how do democracies get turned into dictatorships? Because the democracies aren't overthrown; they're given away." He further opined in the interview that "no matter who you look at in history, the story is always the same, that's what's eerie. It was a little eerie that things have developed the way they have."
He also had envisioned the Empire as being based on Vietnam War-ere America (and by extension, the Rebel Alliance being based on the
Viet Cong
) as early as when he penned the storyline back in 1973, in part due to Star Wars itself being a continuation of a thematic trilogy decrying American involvement in Vietnam, claiming that his intended story draft when pitching it that the story was about "a
technological empire
going after a
small band of freedom fighters
," which had stemmed from his role in the development of the film
Apocalypse Now
earlier.
In an interview for TIME magazine regarding the then-upcoming Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones regarding the connection of the Empire and the Republic, Lucas also implied that, besides Nixon, another influence on the Empire had been the
Kennedy family
.
Non-canon history
Star Wars: Visions Volume 1
"
The Empire provides for us and offers support! We should be grateful.
"
"
What they're providing isn't support. It's just a diplomatic way of saying they're taking over!
"
―Yasaburō and Ochō argue after the attack
The TRIGGER Empire's forces
The Galactic Empire was featured in several short films as part of the
first volume
of
Star Wars: Visions
,
released on
September 22
,
2021
.
In "
THE TWINS
," the
TRIGGER Empire
appeared as a remnant of the Galactic Empire and First Order, led by the
Dark Lord
sibling clones
Am
and
Karre
.
T-Stormtroopers
made up the remnant's military. The T-Empire created the
Gemini-class Star Destroyer
, equipped with a
hyper cannon
powered by a kyber crystal that could destroy several star systems. The plot was foiled by Karre when he stole the kyber crystal and defeated his sister, destroying the Star Destroyer.
In "
T0-B1
," an Imperial Star Destroyer received a transmission from the droid
T0-B1
, who was trained by the Jedi Master
Mitaka
. An
Inquisitor
traveled to the Jedi's
planet
and killed the master but was defeated by T0-B1 soon after.
In "
Lop & Ochō
," the Empire occupied the planet
Tao
and was in control of a
base
on the surface. The
Yasaburō clan
opposed the Imperial presence, the leader
Yasaburō
leading an attack on the base. Yasaburō's biological daughter
Ochō
believed that the Empire was important for Tao's survival and joined their forces, being recruited by an
admiral
of the Imperial Security Bureau. Yasaburō's adopted daughter fought Ochō and defeated her, forcing a retreat.
Star Wars: Visions Volume 2
"
Their spears dug deep into the heart of our land. And they took our water. They poisoned our world.
"
―Tichina speaking of the Empire's actions on Selk
The Empire poisoned the planet Selk with its factory.
The Empire appeared in multiple short films of the
Star Wars: Visions
second volume
as well,
being released on
May 4
,
2023
.
In "
In the Stars
," the Galactic Empire
occupied
the planet
Selk
, building a
factory
that poisoned the planet's oceans. The native
sentient species
of the world attempted to fight back against the Imperial forces, but were swiftly defeated by the Empire's superior weaponry, leaving the sisters
Koten
and
Tichina
as the sole survivors. The sisters eventually attacked and destroyed the factory, breathing life back into the planet.
In "
The Spy Dancer
," the planet
B-bel
was attacked by the Empire and a
child
of the
alien
Loi'e
was kidnapped by an
Imperial officer
. Years later, Loi'e owned
Loi'e's Follies
, where several individuals performed for the Empire's forces and secretly assisted the Rebel Alliance. During a performance, Loi'e's son arrived at the cabaret with his
KX-security droid
and mistaking him for the man who kidnapped him, Loi'e attacked her son. The Imperial forces opened fire on Loi'e, but she was able to speak to her son and left him a hologram of himself as an infant. The performers escaped the cabaret before it was destroyed.
Appearances
Star Wars: Force Arena
Star Wars: Galactic Defense
Star Wars: Starfighter Missions
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
3
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Lost / Found
"
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Mace Windu
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Mace Windu
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Mace Windu
3
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Mace Windu
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Battlefront II
Queen's Shadow
(and
audiobook
)
Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade
(and
audiobook
)
Queen's Hope
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
Sharing the Same Face
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
(Vision to Yoda)
Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
(and
audiobook
)
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Ghosts of Mortis
"
(Vision to Anakin Skywalker)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Carnage of Krell
"
(Indirect mention only)
"
The Shadow of Umbara
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Kanan
9
Kanan
10
Kanan
11
Star Wars Outlaws: Low Red Moon
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Phantom Apprentice
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Aftermath
"
Kanan
2
Kanan
3
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Victory and Death
"
Darth Vader
(2017) 1
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
Devoted
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Resolve
"
Darth Vader
(2017) 2
Darth Vader
(2017) 3
Darth Vader
(2017) 4
Darth Vader
(2017) 5
Master of Evil
Darth Vader
(2017) 6
Darth Vader
(2017) 7
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Cut and Run
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Replacements
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Cornered
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Rampage
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Decommissioned
"
Darth Vader
(2017) 8
Darth Vader
(2017) 9
Darth Vader
(2017) 10
"
The Lesson (Darth Vader)
" —
Star Wars
(2020) 25
Darth Vader
(2017) 11
Darth Vader
(2017) 12
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Battle Scars
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Reunion
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Bounty Lost
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Common Ground
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Devil's Deal
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Rescue on Ryloth
"
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
War-Mantle
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Return to Kamino
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Kamino Lost
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Spoils of War
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Ruins of War
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Solitary Clone
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Tribe
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Clone Conspiracy
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Truth and Consequences
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Underworld
— "
A Way Forward
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Underworld
— "
Friends
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Underworld
— "
One Warrior to Another
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Retrieval
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Metamorphosis
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Outpost
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Pabu
"
(Mentioned only)
Sanctuary: A Bad Batch Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Tipping Point
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Summit
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Plan 99
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Confined
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Shadows of Tantiss
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
A Different Approach
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Infiltration
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Extraction
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Identity Crisis
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Point of No Return
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Juggernaut
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Into the Breach
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Flash Strike
"
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Cavalry Has Arrived
"
"
The Orphanage
" —
Dark Legends
(In flashback(s))
"
The Dark Wraith
" —
Myths & Fables
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
"
The Predecessor
" —
Dark Legends
(In flashback(s))
Kanan
4
Kanan
5
Star Wars: Maul - Shadow Lord
Darth Vader
(2017) 13
Darth Vader
(2017) 14
Darth Vader
(2017) 15
Darth Vader
(2017) 16
Darth Vader
(2017) 17
Darth Vader Annual
2
"
No Good Deed...
" —
Darth Vader
(2017) 1
Ahsoka
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Escape
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Snare
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Nest
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Steal
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Cold
(and
audiobook
)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Rescue
(and
audiobook
)
Thrawn Ascendancy: Lesser Evil
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
Realization
"
Shadow of Maul
1
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Shadow of Maul
2
(Mentioned only)
"
Galactic Tales: A Death in Elderblock 26-0640
" —
Star Wars Insider
236
Thrawn
(and
audiobook
)
Thrawn
1
Thrawn
2
Thrawn
3
Thrawn
4
Thrawn
5
Thrawn
6
Lords of the Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
Orientation
" —
Star Wars Insider
157
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
and
Lords of the Sith
)
Tarkin
(and
audiobook
)
(First identified as New Order)
"
TK-462
" —
Star Wars Insider
166
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Darth Vader
(2017) 18
Darth Vader
(2017) 19
Darth Vader
(2017) 20
Darth Vader
(2017) 21
Darth Vader
(2017) 22
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
1
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
2
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
3
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
4
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
5
"
Trouble Again
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 9
"
The Song of Winter's Heart
" —
Life Day Treasury
"
Mercy Mission
" —
The Rise of the Empire
Most Wanted
(and
audiobook
)
Han Solo - Imperial Cadet
1
Han Solo - Imperial Cadet
2
Han Solo - Imperial Cadet
3
Han Solo - Imperial Cadet
4
Han Solo - Imperial Cadet
5
Rebel Rising
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Jedi: Battle Scars
(and
audiobook
)
Darth Vader
(2017) 23
Darth Vader
(2017) 24
Darth Vader
(2017) 25
Inquisitors
1
Inquisitors
2
Inquisitors
3
Inquisitors
4
Lando's Luck
(and
audiobook
)
"
Bottleneck
" —
The Rise of the Empire
A New Dawn
(and
audiobook
)
Beckett
1
Solo: A Star Wars Story
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Meet the Crew
Solo: A Star Wars Story
Graphic Novel Adaptation
Solo: A Star Wars Story Adaptation
1
Lando - Double or Nothing
1
Lando - Double or Nothing
2
Lando - Double or Nothing
3
Lando - Double or Nothing
4
Lando - Double or Nothing
5
Solo: A Star Wars Story Adaptation
2
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Train Heist
Solo: A Star Wars Story Adaptation
3
(Mentioned only)
Solo: A Star Wars Story Adaptation
5
Solo: A Star Wars Story Adaptation
6
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo - From Smuggler to General
"
"
The End of History
" —
Star Wars Insider
154
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
The Path of Anger
"
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part I
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
1
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part II
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
2
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part III
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
3
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part IV
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
4
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part V
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
5
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part VI
"
Obi-Wan Kenobi
6
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Han Solo & Chewbacca
1
Han Solo & Chewbacca
2
Han Solo & Chewbacca
3
Han Solo & Chewbacca
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Han Solo & Chewbacca
5
Han Solo & Chewbacca
6
Han Solo & Chewbacca
8
Han Solo & Chewbacca
9
HoloNet News
Report: Imperial Registration Program
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Report: Wookiee Revolt Quelled on Kashyyyk
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Lothal Jobless Rates Hit All-time Low
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Controversial Statue Finally Destroyed
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Rise in Citizen Reporting Results in Captured Criminals
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Empire Ensures New Affordable Housing on Lothal
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Famed Imperial Pilot Moves to Lothal
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Journalists Across Galaxy Join Press Corps
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Breaking News: Unauthorized Mining Operation Halted
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Special Report: Community Leaders Discuss Capital City Improvements
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
HoloNet News
Exclusive: Mas Amedda receives Governor Arihnda Pryce for Lothal report
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
Lost Stars
(and
audiobook
)
Lost Stars
webcomic
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
"
The Hoojib Menace
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2021
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Kassa
"
(Emblem only)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
That Would Be Me
"
(Emblem only)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Reckoning
"
(Emblem only)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Aldhani
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
The Axe Forgets
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
The Eye
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Announcement
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Narkina 5
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Nobody's Listening!
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
One Way Out
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Daughter of Ferrix
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Rix Road
"
Ezra's Gamble
Star Wars Rebels: Ghost Raid
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
) (
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Machine in the Ghost
"
The Machine in the Ghost (short story)
Chopper Saves the Day
Rise of the Rebels
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Art Attack
"
Sabine's Art Attack
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Entanglement
"
Zeb to the Rescue
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Property of Ezra Bridger
"
Ezra and the Pilot
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Spark of Rebellion
"
The Rebellion Begins
Star Wars Rebels
, Vol. 1
Ezra's Wookiee Rescue
Droids in Distress
chapter book
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Droids in Distress
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fighter Flight
"
TIE Fighter Trouble
"
Ring Race
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rise of the Old Masters
"
Star Wars Rebels
, Vol. 2
The Inquisitor's Trap
"
Learning Patience
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
2
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Breaking Ranks
"
"
The Fake Jedi
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
3
"
Kallus' Hunt
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
4
Star Wars Rebels: Rebel Strike
on
Disney
's
official website
(
backup link
) (
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Out of Darkness
"
Hera's Phantom Flight
Forces of Destiny—Hera
Star Wars Rebels: Chopper Chase
on
Disney
's
official website
(
backup link
) (
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars Rebels: Recon Missions
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Empire Day
"
Ezra's Duel with Danger
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Gathering Forces
"
"
Return of the Slavers
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
5
(Mentioned only)
Kanan
1
(Mentioned only)
Kanan
6
Kanan
12
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Path of the Jedi
"
(Vision to Ezra Bridger)
Star Wars Rebels
, Vol. 3
Kanan's Jedi Training
"
Sabotaged Supplies
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
7
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Idiot's Array
"
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Vision of Hope
"
"
Ezra's Vision
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
8
(Mentioned only)
"
Becoming Hunted
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
10
(Mentioned only)
"
Assessment
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
11
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Call to Action
"
Battle to the End
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rebel Resolve
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fire Across the Galaxy
"
"
Senate Perspective
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
9
"
Ocean Rescue
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
12
"
Rebel Bluff
" —
Star Wars Insider
158
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
One Year Later
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Sagrona Teema
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Harvest
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Siege of Lothal
"
Star Wars Arcade - Team Tactics
on
Disney
's
official United Kingdom website
(
article
) (backup link not available)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Darth Vader vs. the Rebel Fleet - Fearsome Fighter Pilot
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Lost Commanders
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Relics of the Old Republic
"
"
Secrets of Sienar
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
13
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Always Two There Are
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Brothers of the Broken Horn
"
Star Wars Rebels: Imperial Heist
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Wings of the Master
"
"
No Sympathy
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
14
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Blood Sisters
"
"
Too Late to Change
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
28
(Mentioned only)
"
Always Bet on Chop
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
23
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Stealth Strike
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Stranger
"
"
A Day's Duty
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
15
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Future of the Force
"
Star Wars Rebels: L'avenir de la Force
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Ever Been to Ghorman?
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
I Have Friends Everywhere
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
What a Festive Evening
"
Leia, Princess of Alderaan
(and
audiobook
)
Leia Organa: Ordeal of the Princess
"
Ice Breaking
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
16
"
Vulnerable Areas
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
17
"
The Size of the Fight
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
29
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legacy
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A Princess on Lothal
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Protector of Concord Dawn
"
Star Wars Rebels: Strike Missions
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
) (
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legends of the Lasat
"
"
Academy Cadets
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
18
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Call
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Bounty of Trouble
"
Forces of Destiny: The Leia Chronicles
"
Escaping the Scrap Pile
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
19
"
The Ballad of 264
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
25
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Homecoming
"
"
The Wrong Crowd
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
30
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Honorable Ones
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Shroud of Darkness
"
"
The Gangsters of Galzez
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
20
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Forgotten Droid
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Newest Recruit
"
"
The Line of Duty
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
26
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Twilight of the Apprentice
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Hasty Departure
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Accidental Allies
"
Rogue One - Cassian & K-2SO Special
1
Age of Rebellion - Darth Vader
1
"
The Long Game
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
"
The Grand Imperial Jubilee
" —
A New Legacy
1
"
Endangered, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 7
"
Endangered, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 8
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Steps Into Shadow
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Antilles Extraction
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Hera's Heroes
"
"
Sons of the Sky
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
33
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Last Battle
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Imperial Supercommandos
"
Star Wars Rebels: Special Ops
on
Disney
's
official United Kingdom website
(
backup link
) (
original link
is obsolete)
"
A Trooper's Worth
" —
Star Wars Rebels Animation
1
"
Divide and Conquer
" —
Star Wars Rebels Animation
2
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Iron Squadron
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Wynkahthu Job
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
An Inside Man
"
"
To Thy Metal Heart Be True
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
32
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Visions and Voices
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Ghosts of Geonosis
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Warhead
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Trials of the Darksaber
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legacy of Mandalore
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Art History
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Messenger
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Who Are You?
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Through Imperial Eyes
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Welcome to the Rebellion
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Secret Cargo
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Double Agent Droid
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Twin Suns
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Zero Hour
"
Thrawn: Alliances
(and
audiobook
)
Thrawn: Alliances
1
Vader - Dark Visions
1
Vader - Dark Visions
3
"
The Witch & the Wookiee
" —
Myths & Fables
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Inbrief
" —
Star Wars Insider
161
(reprinted in
Star Wars
2016 Del Rey Sampler
;
Battlefront: Twilight Company
;
Special Edition 2019
; and
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
"
The Kindling
" —
Life Day Treasury
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Voice of the Empire
" —
Star Wars Insider
170
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Target Vader
1
Target Vader
2
Target Vader
3
Target Vader
4
Target Vader
5
Target Vader
6
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire
Vader Immortal
–
Episode I
Vader Immortal
–
Episode II
Vader Immortal
–
Episode III
Star Wars Rebels: Heroes of Mandalore
"
Not for Nothing
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
In the Name of the Rebellion
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Occupation
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Flight of the Defender
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Kindred
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Crawler Commandeers
"
"
Red Four
" —
Marvel Comics 1000
"
Crossing the Line
" —
Star Wars Rebels Animation
4
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rebel Assault
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Jedi Night
"
Thrawn: Treason
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
DUME
"
Guardians of the Whills
Guardians of the Whills: The Manga
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Wolves and a Door
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A World Between Worlds
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A Fool's Hope
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Family Reunion – and Farewell
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
The Way Out
"
"
The Sand Will Provide
" —
Star Wars
(2015) 37
"
An Old Hope
" —
Life Day Treasury
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Chewbacca - The Trusty Co-Pilot
"
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
1
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
2
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
3
Star Wars Adventures
Free Comic Book Day 2019
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
4
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
5
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
1
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
2
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
3
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
4
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
5
Vader - Dark Visions
2
Vader - Dark Visions
4
Vader - Dark Visions
5
"
Hard Shutdown
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
1
"
Inescapable
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
1
(Appears in dream)
"
Dissolution of Hope
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
1
"
The
Endless Mercy
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
2
"
Power
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
2
"
Annihilated
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
3
"
The Inhabitant
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
4
Boba Fett — Black, White & Red
1
Boba Fett — Black, White & Red
2
(Mentioned only)
Boba Fett — Black, White & Red
4
"
Blood Moon Uprising
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
Stolen Valor
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
"
Tales of Villainy: The Short Goodbye
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 5
"
The Baptist
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Obi-Wan
1
(Cover only)
Obi-Wan
5
Rogue One – Jyn Erso
1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Make It Stop
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Who Else Knows?
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Jedha, Kyber, Erso
"
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Rogue One: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Graphic Novel Adaptation
Rogue One Adaptation
1
Rogue One Adaptation
2
Rogue One Adaptation
3
Rogue One Adaptation
4
Rogue One Adaptation
5
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
"
Rogue One Adaptation
6
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Darth Vader - Power of the Dark Side
"
"
Raymus
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Bounty Hunt
"
Of MSE-6 and Men
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Age of Rebellion - Grand Moff Tarkin
1
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
(First appearance)
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: A New Hope
junior novelization
A New Hope
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
A New Hope
Read-Along Storybook and CD
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
A Leader Named Leia
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars: Heroes Path
Star Wars Battlefront
Escape from Darth Vader
"
Escape from Darth Vader
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Escape from Darth Vader
" —
5-Minute Star Wars Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
R2-D2 - A Loyal Droid
"
"
The Bucket
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
"
"
The Sith of Datawork
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Stories in the Sand
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Red One
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Hero's Journey Begins
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Obi-Wan Kenobi
"
(In flashback(s))
"
Fully Operational
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
An Incident Report
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Master and Apprentice
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Beru Whitesun Lars
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
Change of Heart
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
You Owe Me a Ride
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Secrets of Long Snoot
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Born in the Storm
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Kloo Horn Cantina Caper
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Luckless Rodian
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
We Don't Serve Their Kind Here
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo - Galaxy's Best Smuggler
"
"
Verge of Greatness
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Added Muscle
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Eclipse
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Laina
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
"
Trapped in the Death Star!
"
There is Another
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Trigger
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
End of Watch
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia – The Rescue
"
"
Bump
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
R2-D2 and C3PO – Trash Compactor Rescue
"
"
Time of Death
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Palpatine
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Contingency Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Sparks
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Desert Son
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Duty Roster
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
"
"
Grounded
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
"
Battlefront II: Inferno Squad
(and
audiobook
)
"
By Whatever Sun
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Princess Leia
1
(Mentioned only)
"
The Angle
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Han and the Rebel Rescue
(reprinted in
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
)
(and
audiobook
)
Smuggler's Run
animated comic
Star Wars Adventures: Smuggler's Run
1
"
Smuggler's Run, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Universum
1
Star Wars Adventures: Smuggler's Run
2
"
Last Call at the Zero Angle
" —
Star Wars Insider
156
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Age of Rebellion - Han Solo
1
"
One Thousand Levels Down
" —
Star Wars Insider
151
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
Princess Leia
2
Princess Leia
3
Princess Leia
4
Princess Leia
5
Lando
1
Lando
2
Lando
3
Lando
4
Lando
5
"
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 7
"
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 8
Chewbacca
(2015) 1
Chewie and the Courageous Kid
(reprinted in
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
)
(Mentioned only)
Chewbacca
(2015) 2
(Mentioned only)
Chewbacca
(2015) 3
Chewbacca
(2015) 4
Chewbacca
(2015) 5
"
Swoop Racers
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 21
(Mentioned only)
"
The Lost Eggs of Livorno
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2018
"
Rabbit Hunt
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2020
"
The Bridge
" —
Age of Resistance Special
1
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 4
Han Solo
1
(Mentioned only)
Han Solo
2
Han Solo
3
Han Solo
4
Han Solo
5
Heir to the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Luke and the Lost Jedi Temple
(and
audiobook
)
The Weapon of a Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
1
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Magazine
19
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Magazine
20
(Mentioned only)
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 3
" —
Star Wars Magazine
21
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 4
" —
Star Wars Magazine
22
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Commander
Star Wars
(2015) 1
Star Wars
(2015) 2
Star Wars
(2015) 3
Darth Vader
(2015) 1
"
Coda
" —
Darth Vader
(2015) 25
Star Wars
(2015) 4
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 1
Doctor Aphra: An Audiobook Original
Darth Vader
(2015) 2
Darth Vader
(2015) 3
Darth Vader
(2015) 4
Star Wars
(2015) 5
Darth Vader
(2015) 5
Star Wars
(2015) 6
Darth Vader
(2015) 6
Star Wars
(2015) 8
Star Wars
(2015) 9
Star Wars
(2015) 10
Star Wars
(2015) 11
Star Wars
(2015) 12
Darth Vader
(2015) 7
Darth Vader
(2015) 8
Darth Vader
(2015) 9
Darth Vader
(2015) 10
Darth Vader
(2015) 11
Darth Vader
(2015) 12
Darth Vader Annual
1
"
Rogue's Gambit
" —
A New Legacy
1
Vader Down
1
Darth Vader
(2015) 13
Star Wars
(2015) 13
Darth Vader
(2015) 14
Star Wars
(2015) 14
Darth Vader
(2015) 15
Star Wars
(2015) 16
Star Wars
(2015) 17
Star Wars
(2015) 18
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 19
Darth Vader
(2015) 16
Darth Vader
(2015) 17
Darth Vader
(2015) 18
Darth Vader
(2015) 19
Darth Vader
(2015) 20
"
The Misadventures of Triple-Zero and Beetee
" —
Darth Vader
(2015) 20
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2015) 21
Darth Vader
(2015) 22
Darth Vader
(2015) 23
Darth Vader
(2015) 24
Darth Vader
(2015) 25
"
Diplomatic Impunity
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
3
Star Wars
(2015) 21
Star Wars
(2015) 22
Star Wars
(2015) 23
Star Wars
(2015) 24
Star Wars
(2015) 25
Star Wars
(2015) 26
Star Wars
(2015) 27
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars
(2015) 28
Star Wars
(2015) 29
(Mentioned only in opening crawl)
Star Wars
(2015) 30
(Mentioned only in opening crawl)
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 2
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 1
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 2
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 3
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 4
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 5
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 6
The Screaming Citadel
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 31
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 7
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 32
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 8
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 33
"
The Trouble at Tibrin
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 4
"
The Trouble at Tibrin, Part II
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 5
Star Wars
(2015) 34
Star Wars
(2015) 35
Star Wars
(2015) 36
"
Mind Your Manners
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2018
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 3
(In flashback(s))
"
Shu-Torun Lives
" —
Star Wars
(2015) 50
Star Wars
(2015) 37
Doctor Aphra Annual
1
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 9
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 10
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 11
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 12
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 13
Doctor Aphra Annual
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 14
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 15
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 16
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 17
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 18
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 19
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 20
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 21
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 22
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 23
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 24
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 25
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 26
(Appears on viewscreen)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 27
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 29
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 30
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 31
Star Wars
(2015) 38
Star Wars
(2015) 39
Star Wars
(2015) 40
Star Wars
(2015) 41
Star Wars
(2015) 42
Star Wars
(2015) 43
The Last Jedi – The Storms of Crait
1
Star Wars
(2015) 44
Star Wars
(2015) 45
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 46
Star Wars
(2015) 47
Star Wars
(2015) 48
Star Wars
(2015) 49
Star Wars
(2015) 50
Star Wars
(2015) 51
Star Wars
(2015) 52
Star Wars
(2015) 53
Star Wars
(2015) 54
Star Wars
(2015) 55
Star Wars
(2015) 56
Star Wars
(2015) 57
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 58
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 59
Star Wars
(2015) 60
Star Wars
(2015) 61
Star Wars
(2015) 62
Star Wars
(2015) 63
Star Wars
(2015) 64
Star Wars
(2015) 65
Star Wars
(2015) 66
Star Wars
(2015) 67
"
For the Love of the Empire
" —
A New Legacy
1
Age of Rebellion - Lando Calrissian
1
(Mentioned only)
Age of Rebellion - Jabba the Hutt
1
Hyperspace Stories
2
Star Wars
(2015) 68
Star Wars
(2015) 69
Star Wars
(2015) 70
Star Wars
(2015) 71
Star Wars
(2015) 72
Star Wars
(2015) 73
Star Wars
(2015) 74
Star Wars
(2015) 75
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 32
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 33
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 34
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 35
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 36
Doctor Aphra Annual
3
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 37
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 38
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 39
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 40
"
Epilogue
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
"
An Echo of Victory
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
(Mentioned only)
"
Gift of Light
" —
Life Day
1
"
Squad Goals, Part One
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 11
"
Squad Goals, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 12
Age of Rebellion - Boba Fett
1
(Mentioned only)
Hyperspace Stories
7
"
The Coin
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2021
(Mentioned only)
Choose Your Destiny: A Smuggler Mission
"
A Matter Of Perception
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 22
(Mentioned only)
"
A Rebel Bounty
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2020
"
Tales of Villainy: A Last Chapter
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 13
Battlefront: Twilight Company
(and
audiobook
)
"
Luke on the Bright Side
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
In Service to the Empire
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
"
Two Sides to Every Sortie
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
Forces of Destiny—Leia
Yoda
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
3
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
5
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
6
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
7
(Mentioned only)
Yoda
8
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Yoda
9
(In flashback(s))
Yoda
10
(Vision to Yoda)
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
junior novelization
The Empire Strikes Back
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
The Empire Strikes Back
Read-Along Storybook and CD
AT-AT Attack!
"
The Battle of Hoth
" —
5-Minute Star Wars Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Eyes of the Empire
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
A Good Kiss
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Ion Control
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears on screen)
"
Rogue Two
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Heroes of the Rebellion
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Battle of Hoth
"
"
The Truest Duty
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Kendal
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Against All Odds
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. Imperial Walkers - Commander on Hoth
"
"
Beyond Hope
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 1
"
Rendezvous Point
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Use the Force!
(Appears in Force vision)
"
The Trial of Dagobah
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
"
"
The Final Order
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker Trains with Master Yoda
"
(Vision to Luke Skywalker)
"
Faith in an Old Friend
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears on screen)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Yoda – The Jedi Master
"
(In flashback(s))
"
Disturbance
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Amara Kel's Rules for TIE Pilot Survival (Probably)
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
STET!
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Tooth and Claw
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears in hologram)
"
Wait for It
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Boba Fett - The Bounty Hunter
"
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Rendezvous at Bespin
"
"
No Time for Poetry
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Captured on Cloud City
"
Into the Clouds
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Due on Batuu
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Witness
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Clash on Cloud City
"
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
"
"
The Man Who Built Cloud City
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Bespin Escape
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Backup Backup Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Darth Vader
(2020) 1
Star Wars
(2020) 1
Star Wars
(2020) 2
"
Right-Hand Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 3
Star Wars
(2020) 4
Star Wars
(2020) 5
Star Wars
(2020) 6
Darth Vader
(2020) 2
Darth Vader
(2020) 3
Darth Vader
(2020) 4
Darth Vader
(2020) 5
Darth Vader
(2020) 6
Darth Vader
(2020) 7
Darth Vader
(2020) 8
Darth Vader
(2020) 9
Darth Vader
(2020) 10
Darth Vader
(2020) 11
Bounty Hunters
1
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
2
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
3
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
4
Bounty Hunters
5
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
6
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 7
Star Wars
(2020) 8
Bounty Hunters
7
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 9
Star Wars
(2020) 10
Star Wars
(2020) 11
Star Wars
(2020) 12
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 1
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 2
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 3
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 5
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 6
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 7
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 8
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 9
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 10
Bounty Hunters
8
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
9
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
10
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 13
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
11
(Mentioned only)
War of the Bounty Hunters
1
Bounty Hunters
13
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 14
Darth Vader
(2020) 12
Star Wars
(2020) 15
Darth Vader
(2020) 14
Darth Vader
(2020) 13
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 11
Bounty Hunters
14
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
15
Darth Vader
(2020) 15
War of the Bounty Hunters
2
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 12
Bounty Hunters
16
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 13
War of the Bounty Hunters
3
Star Wars
(2020) 16
Darth Vader
(2020) 16
War of the Bounty Hunters
4
Star Wars
(2020) 17
War of the Bounty Hunters
5
Darth Vader
(2020) 17
Bounty Hunters
17
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 15
War of the Bounty Hunters – IG-88
1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 18
(In flashback(s))
War of the Bounty Hunters – Boushh
1
Crimson Reign
1
Star Wars
(2020) 19
Star Wars
(2020) 20
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 16
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 17
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 18
Bounty Hunters
18
Bounty Hunters
19
Star Wars
(2020) 21
Crimson Reign
2
Star Wars
(2020) 22
Star Wars
(2020) 23
Star Wars
(2020) 24
Crimson Reign
3
(In flashback(s))
Crimson Reign
4
Darth Vader
(2020) 18
Darth Vader
(2020) 19
Darth Vader
(2020) 20
Darth Vader
(2020) 21
Darth Vader
(2020) 22
Darth Vader
(2020) 23
Darth Vader
(2020) 24
Darth Vader
(2020) 25
Darth Vader
(2020) 26
Darth Vader
(2020) 27
Darth Vader
(2020) 28
Bounty Hunters
23
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
24
Bounty Hunters
25
Bounty Hunters
26
Crimson Reign
5
Star Wars
(2020) 26
Star Wars
(2020) 27
Star Wars
(2020) 28
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 19
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 20
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 21
Bounty Hunters
27
Bounty Hunters
28
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 22
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 23
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 24
(Picture only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 25
(Sculpture only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 26
(Picture only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 27
Hidden Empire
1
Revelations
(2022) 1
Hidden Empire
2
Hidden Empire
3
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 28
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 29
(Picture only)
Hidden Empire
4
Hidden Empire
5
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 30
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 31
(Picture only)
Sana Starros
1
Sana Starros
2
Sana Starros
3
Sana Starros
4
Sana Starros
5
Bounty Hunters
29
Bounty Hunters
30
Bounty Hunters
31
Bounty Hunters
32
Bounty Hunters
33
Bounty Hunters
34
Star Wars
(2020) 29
Star Wars
(2020) 30
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 32
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 33
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 29
Darth Vader
(2020) 30
Darth Vader
(2020) 31
Darth Vader
(2020) 32
Darth Vader
(2020) 33
Darth Vader
(2020) 34
Darth Vader
(2020) 35
Darth Vader
(2020) 36
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 32
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 33
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 34
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 35
(Vision to Luke Skywalker)
Bounty Hunters
35
(Appears in drawing)
Bounty Hunters
36
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 36
"
Return to Echo Base
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
"
The Book of Ajax
" —
Dark Droids: D-Squad
1
(Emblem only)
(In flashback(s))
Dark Droids
1
Star Wars
(2020) 37
(Emblem only)
(In flashback(s))
Dark Droids
2
Bounty Hunters
38
(Mentioned only)
Dark Droids
3
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 36
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 37
Darth Vader
(2020) 37
Darth Vader
(2020) 38
Darth Vader
(2020) 39
Dark Droids: D-Squad
1
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Dark Droids: D-Squad
2
(Mentioned only)
Dark Droids: D-Squad
3
Dark Droids: D-Squad
4
Dark Droids
4
Darth Vader
(2020) 40
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 38
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 39
Bounty Hunters
40
Star Wars
(2020) 40
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 41
Dark Droids
5
Bounty Hunters
41
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 40
Star Wars
(2020) 43
(Vision to Luke Skywalker)
Star Wars
(2020) 44
(Mentioned only)
"
A Trick of the Mind
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
Star Wars
(2020) 45
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 46
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 47
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 48
(Appears in dream)
Star Wars
(2020) 49
(In flashback(s))
"
Tool of the Empire
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
Darth Vader
(2020) 42
Darth Vader
(2020) 43
Darth Vader
(2020) 44
Darth Vader
(2020) 45
"
The Curse
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
Darth Vader
(2020) 46
Darth Vader
(2020) 47
Darth Vader
(2020) 48
Darth Vader
(2020) 49
Darth Vader
(2020) 50
"
Duel of the Reprobates
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
Bounty Hunters
42
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Darth Vader - Might of the Empire
"
"
Return to Hoth
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
4
Return of the Jedi – The Empire
1
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Leia and the Great Island Escape
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Lando
1
Hyperspace Stories
12
Tales From the Nightlands
2
(Appears as a ghost or spirit)
Age of Rebellion - Luke Skywalker
1
Age of Rebellion - Princess Leia
1
(Mentioned only)
"
Peekpa's Tale
" —
Return of the Jedi – Ewoks
1
"
Wolf Trap
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Trooper Trouble
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – The Rebellion
1
"
Dune Sea Songs of Salt and Moonlight
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Galactic Tales: Valnir and Laizhu
" —
Star Wars Insider
222
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
Star Wars: Return of the Jedi
junior novelization
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi
Read-Along Storybook and CD
"
Any Work Worth Doing
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Rescue from Jabba's Palace
Return of the Jedi – Jabba's Palace
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Leia and Han - The Han Rescue
"
(In flashback(s))
"
The Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Kickback
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Reputation
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Fancy Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
"
The Chronicler
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Kernels and Husks
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
From a Certain Point of View
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
"
No Contingency
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Burden of Leadership
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Gone to the Winner's Circle
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Divine (?) Intervention
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Buy-In
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
The Ballad of Nanta
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
TIE Fighter
1
TIE Fighter
2
TIE Fighter
3
TIE Fighter
4
"
Masters
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
When Fire Marked the Sky
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Extra Five Percent
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Blade Squadron
" —
Star Wars Insider
149
–
150
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
Return of the Jedi: The Battle of Endor
Ewoks Join the Fight
"
One Normal Day
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia - An Unexpected Friend
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Ewok Escape
"
"
The Man Who Captured Luke Skywalker
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Ackbar
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
"
The Impossible Flight of Ash Angels
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Ending Protocol
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Last Flight
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Twenty and Out
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Impact
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Emperor's Red Guards
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
"
"
The Levers of Power
" —
The Rise of the Empire
Shattered Empire
1
"
To the Last
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Then Fall, Sidious
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Brotherhood
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Galactic Tales: Shockwave
" —
Star Wars Insider
220
"
Galactic Tales: Lost in the Woods
" —
Star Wars Insider
221
"
The Veteran
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
1
"
The Rising
" —
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
1
"
The Steadfast Soldier
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
An Imperial Feast
"
TIE Fighter
5
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Traps and Tribulations
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Chopper and Friends
"
The Princess and the Scoundrel
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Max Rebo
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
(In flashback(s))
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
2
Ewoks
(2024) 1
Ewoks
(2024) 2
Ewoks
(2024) 3
Ewoks
(2024) 4
Return of the Jedi – Ewoks
1
(Cover only)
Shattered Empire
2
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
3
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
4
"
A Race for Answers
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 23
Shattered Empire
3
"
Turning Point
" —
Star Wars Insider
169
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Star Wars: Uprising
"
Blade Squadron: Zero Hour
" —
Star Wars Insider
160
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
"
Hare-Brained Heist
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2019
(Mentioned only)
Alphabet Squadron
(and
audiobook
)
Aftermath
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
2
(In dream)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
3
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
4
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
5
Shattered Empire
4
"Hunted"
on the official
Electronic Arts
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Star Wars: Squadrons
The Light You Bring
on
Electronic Arts
'
official website
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Count to Three
on
Electronic Arts
'
official website
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Shadow Fall: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Aftermath: Life Debt
(and
audiobook
)
"
Blade Squadron: Kuat
" —
Star Wars Insider
168
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
1
"
Consolidation
" —
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
1
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
2
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
3
"
The Ghost Ship
" —
Star Wars Adventures: Destroyer Down
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
4
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
1
"
False Histories
" —
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
1
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
2
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Aftermath: Empire's End
(and
audiobook
)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
3
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
4
"
Blade Squadron: Jakku
" —
Star Wars Insider
172
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
Hyperspace Mountain
"
Chasing Ghosts
" —
Myths & Fables
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
1
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
2
(Indirect mention only)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
3
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
5
(Mentioned only)
"
Past is Prologue
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2025) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2025) 2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars
(2025) 3
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2025) 5
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
(2025) 6
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2025) 7
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2025) 9
(Mentioned only)
Hyperspace Stories Annual—Jaxxon 2023
(Mentioned only)
"
The Tree of Life
" —
Life Day Treasury
(Mentioned only)
Last Shot
(and
audiobook
)
"
Galactic Tales: Another Face in the Crowd
" —
Star Wars Insider
237
(Mentioned only)
Hunters: Battle for the Arena
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 1: The Mandalorian
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: Season 1: Volume 1
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 1
(Appears through imagination)
The Mandalorian
– The Graphic Novel of Season 1
The Mandalorian
1
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 2
(Appears through imagination)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 3: The Sin
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
3
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
4
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 3
(Appears through imagination)
The Mandalorian
5
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 6: The Prisoner
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
6
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 4
(Appears through imagination)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 7: The Reckoning
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
7
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 8: Redemption
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: This is the Way
The Mandalorian: A Clan of Two
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
8
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 9: The Marshal
"
(Appears in hologram)
(In flashback(s))
The Mandalorian Season 2
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
1
(Appears in hologram)
(In flashback(s))
The Mandalorian: The Path of the Force
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 10: The Passenger
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
2
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 11: The Heiress
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
3
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 12: The Siege
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 13: The Jedi
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 14: The Tragedy
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 15: The Believer
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 16: The Rescue
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Rescue
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 18: The Mines of Mandalore
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 19: The Convert
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 21: The Pirate
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 22: Guns for Hire
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 23: The Spies
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part One: Master and Apprentice
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Two: Toil and Trouble
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Three: Time to Fly
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Four: Fallen Jedi
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Six: Far, Far Away
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Seven: Dreams and Madness
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew
— "
This Could Be a Real Adventure
"
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Poe Dameron: Free Fall
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears through imagination)
Shadow of the Sith
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Scorched
" —
Star Wars Insider
165
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 50
(In flashback(s))
Bloodline
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Rise of Kylo Ren
1
(Cover only)
"
Galactic Tales: A Loose Connection
" —
Star Wars Insider
235
(Mentioned only)
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The Legends of Luke Skywalker
(and
audiobook
)
"
All Creatures Great and Small
"
(reprinted in
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
)
(Mentioned only)
"
True Love
" —
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
(Mentioned only)
"
The Perfect Weapon
"
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
"
(reprinted in
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Galactic Tales: The Crimson Corsair and the Sinister Secret of the Binary Star
" —
Star Wars Insider
234
(In flashback(s))
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
3
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
4
(In flashback(s))
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
5
(In flashback(s))
Life Day
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Age of Resistance - Poe Dameron
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Before the Awakening
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Poe and the Missing Ship
(reprinted in
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
)
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
1
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
2
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
4
(Mentioned only)
Force Collector
(and
audiobook
)
(Vision to Karr Nuq Sin)
Age of Resistance - Finn
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Age of Resistance - General Hux
1
(In flashback(s))
Age of Resistance - Kylo Ren
1
(In flashback(s))
Join the Resistance
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
7
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
8
(In flashback(s))
Poe Dameron
9
(In flashback(s))
Poe Dameron
10
(In flashback(s))
Poe Dameron
14
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
17
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
18
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron Annual
1
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron Annual
2
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
20
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
24
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The Recruit
"
(Mentioned only)
"
The Recruit - Part 1
" —
Star Wars Resistance Animation
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Fuel for the Fire
"
(Picture only)
"
Fuel for the Fire
" —
Star Wars Resistance Animation
4
(Picture only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The High Tower
"
(Emblem only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The Platform Classic
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Secrets and Holograms
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Treasure Chest
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The First Order Occupation
"
(Mentioned only)
Phasma
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The New Trooper
"
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Join the Resistance: Escape from Vodran
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Bait
" —
Star Wars Insider
162
(Mentioned only)
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
(Mentioned only)
"
Pest Control
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 3
"
Destroyer Down
" —
Star Wars Adventures: Destroyer Down
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens
Little Golden Book
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens
Read-Along Storybook and CD
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Graphic Novel Adaptation
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens: Rey's Story
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens: Finn's Story
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens Adaptation
2
(Mentioned only)
Finn & Rey Escape!
(and
audiobook
)
Han & Chewie Return!
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens Adaptation
3
(Mentioned only)
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
(Mentioned only)
Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
A Call for Heroes
" —
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Beginner Game
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Age of Resistance - Rey
1
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Adventures
Ashcan
(In flashback(s))
"
The Ride
" —
Canto Bight
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
3
(Mentioned only)
"
Legacy of Vaneé
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
1
(Appears in hologram)
Legacy of Vader
2
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
3
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Legacy of Vader
4
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
6
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
7
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
10
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Legacy of Vader
11
(Mentioned only)
Legacy of Vader
12
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Rendezvous Point
"
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
26
(Mentioned only)
Resistance Reborn
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Path of the Lightsaber
, Vol. 1
(Appears through imagination)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The New World
"
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
1
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
2
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
3
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
4
(In flashback(s))
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Spark of the Resistance
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Pirate's Price
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Galaxy's Edge
1
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Galaxy's Edge
2
(Appears as a toy)
Galaxy's Edge
3
(In flashback(s))
A Crash of Fate
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Datapad
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
(Appears in hologram)
(In flashback(s))
Halcyon Legacy
3
(Mentioned only)
Halcyon Legacy
4
(In flashback(s))
Halcyon Legacy
5
(Mentioned only)
The Jaws of Jakku
(Mentioned only)
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
1
(In flashback(s))
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
2
(In flashback(s))
"
Tales from Wild Space: Adventures in Wookiee-Sitting
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 3
(In flashback(s))
"
Tales from Wild Space: IG-88 vs. the Gatto Gang
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 9
(Mentioned only)
"
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 13
"
Tales from Wild Space: The Heist
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 21
(In flashback(s))
"
Tales from Wild Space: A Tauntaun Tail
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 22
(In flashback(s))
"
The Lost Stories, Part 3
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 32
(Picture only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The Escape
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode IX
The Rise of Skywalker
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Last Order
(Mentioned only)
"
Whills
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Whills Strike Back
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Return of the Whills
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Ghosts of Dathomir
Star Wars: Rise to Power
(canceled)
Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes
(Non-
canonical
appearance)
Non-canon appearances
LEGO Star Wars: A New Hope
DK Reader
Star Wars: Battle Pod
Star Wars Epic Yarns: A New Hope
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Exit from Endor
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Crisis on Coruscant
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Mission to Mos Eisley
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Flight of the Falcon
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Gambit on Geonosis
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A Hero Discovered
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Mines of Graballa
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Zander's Joyride
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Lost Treasure of Cloud City
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Peril on Kashyyyk
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Crossing Paths
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Race on Tatooine
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Test
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Kyber Saber Crystal Chase
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Maker of Zoh
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Showdown on Hoth
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Duel of Destiny
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return of the Kyber Saber
"
Rogue One: Recon A Star Wars 360 Experience
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Beware, the Gamorrean Flu!
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Home One
"
(Appears in hologram)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Rowan's Secret Adventure
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Thrown Into Battle
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Zander Freemaker, Superstar Pilot Guy!
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A New Home
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Trouble on Tibalt
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Tower of Alistan Nor
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Embersteel Blade
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Storms of Taul
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return to the Wheel
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Lost Crystals of Qalydon
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Pit and the Pinnacle
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Flight of the Arrowhead
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A Perilous Rescue
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Escape from Coruscant
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Free Fall
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return of the Return of the Jedi
"
"
Far Too Remote
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
The Power at Jakku
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
Yub Nub!
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
The Chase with Han
"
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
Escape with Chewbacca
"
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
Scouting for Leia
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
A Mission with Maz
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Reindeer Walker
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
Lop & Ochō
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
T0-B1
"
LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales
(In flashback(s))
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
New Year's Hothin' Eve
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Happy Celebration 45th Anniversary
A New Hope
"
"
Lop & Ochō
" —
Big Gangan
Vol.07
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Droid Holiday Hustle
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Obi-Wan vs Inquisitors
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
May the Fourth
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
In the Stars
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
The Bandits of Golak
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Vader's Vacation
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
The Sith Witch of Mustafar
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Mech My Day
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Twas the Night Before Life Day
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
LEGO Star Wars - 25 Years
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Ahsoka's Amazing Adventures
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
BLACK
"
Star Wars: Galactic Siege
Sources
The Empire Returns | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Rebels Imperial Propaganda Posters
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Rebels Trailer Preview
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: A Galaxy at War
Ackbar
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
All Terrain Armored Transport
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Biggs Darklighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Darth Bane
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Death Star
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Galactic Empire
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Imperial shuttle
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Imperial Star Destroyer
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Lando Calrissian
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Millennium Falcon
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Mon Calamari
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Rebel Alliance
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Stormtroopers
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Super Star Destroyer
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
TIE fighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Wookiees
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Star Wars Rebels
and More at San Diego Comic-Con 2014 - UPDATED!
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Meet Agent Kallus, Imperial Enforcer | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
Star Wars Rebels: Meet the Rebels
Star Wars Rebels Extended Trailer (Official)
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Introducing
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
on
StarWars.com
(
original link
is obsolete)
Kanan vs. The Inquisitor - SDCC 2014 Exclusive Clip | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
SDCC 2014:
Star Wars: A New Dawn
Panel – Liveblog
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SDCC 2014: "The Heroes of
Star Wars Rebels
" Panel - Liveblog
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Rebels: A New Hero
Star Wars Rebels
Lands in Bookstores
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Databank A-Z: Ask Aak–Stass Allie
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial High Command
Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion
Premieres Friday, October 3 on Disney Channel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Databank A-Z: Alzoc III–Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Weapons & Uniforms: Bounty Hunters
"
Rebel Rouser: Greg Weisman
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
(reprinted in
Special Edition 2017
)
"
The Rebel Bruiser: Steve Blum is Zeb Orrelios
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
The Making of
A New Dawn
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
Rebel Friends!
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
Rebel with a Cause: Taylor Gray is Ezra Bridger
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
(reprinted in
Heroes of the Force
)
"
Mandalorian Graffiti: Tiya Sircar is Sabine Wren
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
(reprinted in
Special Edition 2017
and
The Best of Star Wars Insider
Volume 4
)
"
Classic Moment: Lando's Second Surprise
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
Blaster
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: Barada–Depa Billaba
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Helmets: Imperial Stormtroopers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: A Daring Rescue
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Sandtroopers
Star Wars: Galactic Defense
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Databank A-Z: B1 Battle Droid–Bantha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Helmets: Luke Skywalker — X-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Weapons & Uniforms: Alliance Pilots
HoloNet News promotional pin
HoloNet News promotional posters
NYCC 2013: Meet the Inquisitor, the New Face of Evil in
Star Wars Rebels
on
StarWars.com
(backup link not available)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Databank A-Z: Bongo–Bowcaster
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Helmets: Scout Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Ewoks
Rebel Journal by Ezra Bridger
Death Troopers Invade
Star Wars: Commander
- Exclusive!
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Helmets: TIE Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Peril in the Asteroid Field
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Imperial Fleet
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Databank A-Z: Wedge Antilles–Azmorigan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Helmets: C-3PO, Protocol Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Grievous
Databank A-Z: Master Chief Bric–C-3PO
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Databank A-Z: C-21–Chandrila
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Helmets: AT-AT Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Ground Assault on Hoth
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Droids
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Cody
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Cody
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Cody
Helmets: Commander Cody
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Chewbacca–Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Helmets: Emperor's Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Dignitaries
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Databank A-Z: Cosians–Dagobah
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Helmets: Imperial Gunner
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Highlights of the Saga: The Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Weapons & Uniforms: The Geonosians
Sabine My Rebel Sketchbook
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boushh
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boushh
Databank A-Z: Cut Lawquane–Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boushh
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Courtiers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Databank A-Z: 'Occupier' Tank–Oola
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Databank A-Z: Dooku–Dwarf Spider Droids
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Helmets: Commander Bacara
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
2-1B - Medical Droid
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
AT-AT Driver - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Ackbar - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Motti - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Ozzel - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Piett - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Ben (Obi-Wan) Kenobi - Jedi Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Boba Fett - Bounty Hunter (ESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
C-3PO - Asteroid Repair
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
C-3PO - Protocol Droid (ANH)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Captain Antilles - Tantive IV Captain
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Captain Needa - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chewbacca - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chewbacca - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chewbacca - Wookiee Co-Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chief Bast - Imperial Aide
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chief Chirpa - Ewok Chief
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Count Dooku - Sith Apprentice
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Dak Ralter - Snowspeeder Gunner
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Death Star Inspection
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Sith Lord (ANH)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Sith Lord (ROTS)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Death Star Gunner - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Death Star Trooper - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Emperor Palpatine - Sith Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Endor Rebel Trooper - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Ewoks - Creature
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
FX-7 - Medical Droid
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Garindan - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Madine - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Rieekan - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Tagge - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Veers - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Grand Moff Tarkin - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Han Solo - Corellian Smuggler
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Han Solo - Rebel Captain
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Hobbie Klivian - Snowspeeder Gunner
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Imperial Officer - Soldier
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jan Dodonna - Rebel General
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jawas - Creature
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jek Porkins - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
John D. Branon - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Lando Calrissian - Bespin Administrator
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Lando Calrissian - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Lobot - Lando's Aide
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker - Rebel Commander
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Mas Amedda - Vice Chancellor
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Moff Jerjerrod - Imperial Commander
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Momaw Nadon - Cantina Patron
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Mon Mothma - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Alderaan Senator
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ROTJ)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
R2-D2 - Astromech Droid (ESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
R2-D2 - Jabba's Sail Barge
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Toryn Farr - Communications Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wedge Antilles - Rogue Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wedge Antilles - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wicket W. Warrick - Ewok Scout
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Helmets: 501st Legion Stormtroopers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Coruscant
Star Wars Rebels: Fight the Empire
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Databank A-Z: Moraband–Muftak
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Jedi Knights
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Anakin Skywalker
Databank A-Z: Ewoks–Finn
Ultimate Star Wars
(First identified as First Galactic Empire)
Gentle Giant Maquettes
(Pack:
Zeb
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Databank A-Z: GA-97–Geonosis
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Helmets: Lando Calrissian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Helmets: Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Tantive IV
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
LEGO
Star Wars
(Set:
75093 Death Star Final Duel
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Pilot
Databank A-Z: Poe Dameron–Delta 7-B
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Phase I Clone Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Phase I Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: Gungans–Rako Hardeen
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Phase I Clone Trooper
Helmets: Phase I Clone Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Phase I Clone Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic
LEGO
Star Wars
(Set:
75106 Imperial Assault Carrier
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Databank A-Z: Hassk Triplets–Holograms
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Helmets: Rebel Commando
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Star Wars Rebels: Rebel Power!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: MagnaGuard
Databank A-Z: The HoloNet–General Hux
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tusken Raider
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tusken Raider
Databank A-Z: Rush Clovis–Coruscant
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tusken Raider
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Tatooine
Star Wars Rebels Annual 2016
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Helmets: Y-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Yavin Base
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Gree
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Gree
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Gree
Weapons & Uniforms: The Wookiees
Star Wars: Star Pilot
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Ships of the Galaxy
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Helmets: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Weapons & Uniforms: Droid Firefighters
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Jelucan–Lord Junn
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Helmets: Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Empire Strikes Back!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Fleet
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
39
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
39
Guide to the Galaxy: Hoth Asteroid Belt
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
39
Starship Fact File: VCX-100 Freighter — The
Ghost
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Senate Guard
Databank A-Z: Tee Watt Kaa–Kamino
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Databank A-Z: Dengar–Domino Squad
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Helmets: AT-ST Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Sith
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Helmets: 212th Attack Battalion
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Ready for Action
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Blueprints
,
Card:
Imperial Shuttle
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Databank A-Z: Admiral Kilian–Kowakian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Helmets: Commander Neyo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Weapons & Uniforms: The Republic Fleet
The Art of Star Wars: Uprising
Keeping the Peace
Rey's Survival Guide
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Helmets: Death Star Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Databank A-Z: Kel Dor–Ki-Adi-Mundi
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Helmets: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Weapons & Uniforms: Echo Base
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Odd Ball
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Odd Ball
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Odd Ball
Helmets: Odd Ball
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Databank A-Z: Luggabeast–Malakili
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Helmets: AT-RT Drivers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Weapons & Uniforms: Republic Ground Vehicles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Thire
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Thire
Databank A-Z: Baze Malbus–Darth Maul
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Thire
Helmets: Commander Thire
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zam Wesell
Databank A-Z: Kwazel Maw–Sly Moore
Nexus of Power
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: First Order–Fyrnocks
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Helmets: First Order Stormtroopers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Jakku
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: The First Order
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Helmets: Commander Bly
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Weapons & Uniforms: War on Felucia
Star Wars Expert Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Databank A-Z: OOM-9–Viceroy Bail Organa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Helmets: Captain Phasma
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Weapons & Uniforms: The New Republic
5 of Rae Sloane's Greatest Moments
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
69
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Partnerships
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kylo Ren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kylo Ren
Databank A-Z: Greedo–Gundarks
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kylo Ren
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Zeb Orrelios–Pau City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Starkiller Base Personnel
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Databank A-Z: Unknown Regions–Utai
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Helmets: 4-LOM
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Weapons & Uniforms: Bespin's Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Flametrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Flametrooper
Databank A-Z: Leia Organa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Flametrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jakku
Star Wars: ABC-3PO
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Databank A-Z: Max Rebo–Sabacc
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Helmets: Ezra Bridger
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Weapons & Uniforms: The Lothal Rebels
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zuckuss
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zuckuss
Databank A-Z: Admiral Yularen–Zarro
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zuckuss
Helmets: Zuckuss
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Databank A-Z: Kaminoans–King Katuunko
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Helmets: Poe Dameron
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Beginner Game
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Databank A-Z: The X-wing Starfighter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Helmets: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Green Squadron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Helmets: First Order TIE Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Fire on Jakku
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: First Order Fleet Personnel
Star Wars: Aliens of the Galaxy
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Biggs Darklighter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Biggs Darklighter
Databank A-Z: Venator–Asajj Ventress
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Biggs Darklighter
Helmets: Biggs Darklighter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Databank A-Z:
Soulless One
–Super Battle Droids
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Helmets: The Grand Inquisitor
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Highlights of the Saga: Duel on Stygeon Prime
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Weapons & Uniforms: Dark Side Servants
Star Wars: Complete Locations
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#022: Jyn Erso (Jedha)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Databank A-Z: Darth Vader
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Helmets: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Highlights of the Saga: The Darksaber
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Weapons & Uniforms: Mandalorians
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Databank A-Z: Luke Skywalker–Han Solo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Highlights of the Saga: The Search for Lor San Tekka
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Endless Vigil
Poe Dameron: Flight Log
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Guavian Death Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Guavian Death Guard
Databank A-Z: Hera Syndulla–Ahsoka Tano
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Guavian Death Guard
Helmets: The Guavian Death Gang
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Databank A-Z:
Providence
-class–Raxus
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Helmets: Resistance Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Princess Leia: Royal Rebel
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#027: Director Krennic
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#031: AT-AT Driver
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sidon Ithano
Helmets: Sidon Ithano
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Art of Coloring: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Star Wars: Rogue One: Rebel Dossier
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Databank A-Z:
Tantive IV
–Tatooine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Helmets: Nien Nunb
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Highlights of the Saga: Operation Yellow Moon
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Weapons & Uniforms: The Adventures of Nien Nunb
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
AT-ST
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Block
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Databank A-Z: Valorum–Vassek
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Helmets: Captain Rex
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Much to Learn You Still Have: Talking
Rogue One
Aliens with Pablo Hidalgo
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kashyyyk Clone Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kashyyyk Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: U'Il–Luminara Unduli
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kashyyyk Clone Trooper
Helmets: Clone Scout Trooper
Where in the Galaxy Are the Worlds of
Rogue One
?
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Building the Galaxy: Motion Control Filming
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
4
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
(Picture only)
No Disintegrations
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Ponds
Databank A-Z: Xev Xrexus–Yavin 4
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Geonosians
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Helmets: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Highlights of the Saga: To Save a Jedi
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Weapons & Uniforms: 2-1Bs in the Galaxy
Darth Vader: Sith Lord
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Droid Directory: EGL Power Droids
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
7
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
7
Building the Galaxy: The
Star Wars
Stunt Team
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
7
Droid Directory: LOM-series Protocol Droids
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
8
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
8
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
8
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Helmets: Wedge Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Skystrike
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Tauntaun–TIE Craft
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Helmets: Naboo Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Weapons & Uniforms: The Naboo
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
10
Building the Galaxy: Visual Effects, Part 1
(Picture only)
(Appears in hologram)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Databank A-Z: Vulptex–Wampas
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Helmets: Galactic Marine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Databank A-Z: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Weapons & Uniforms: Black Squadron
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#060: Death Star Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Databank A-Z: Serenno–Anakin Skywalker
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Helmets: Shoretrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on the Beach
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Creators of the Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Databank A-Z: Ziro the Hutt–Zygerria
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Helmets: Death Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: A Perilous Mission
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Trooper Variants
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saesee Tiin–Toydaria
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Helmets: Tank Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Target: The Holy City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Saw Gerrera's Partisans
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Databank A-Z: Zabrak–Zillo Beast
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Helmets: Jek Porkins
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Weapons & Uniforms: Rebel Leaders at Yavin 4
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Helmets: Imperial Ground Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating the Citadel
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Weapons & Uniforms: Rogue One Commandos
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Databank A-Z: U-Wing–V-Wing
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Helmets: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Wobani
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: SpecForce on Scarif
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Databank A-Z: Zam Wesell–Wexley
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Helmets: General Merrick
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Weapons & Uniforms: Blue Squadron
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Helmets: First Order Fleet Engineer
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Highlights of the Saga: Saving D'Qar
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Weapons & Uniforms: The
Finalizer
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Helmets: Tam Posla
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Highlights of the Saga: Life After Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Databank A-Z: Wicket Warrick–Weequay
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Helmets: Commander Wolffe
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Weapons & Uniforms: Grand Admiral Thrawn
Star Wars: The Black Series Centerpiece
(Pack:
#02: Luke Skywalker
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Databank A-Z: Grand Master Yoda
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Helmets: Silvanie Phest
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Weapons & Uniforms: The Ashes of Jedha
Créatures et peuples de la galaxie
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Helmets: B-Wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of the Blade Wing
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Blade Squadron
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
The Last Jedi: Bomber Command
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Character: Darth Vader
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Character: Stormtroopers
Dawn of Rebellion
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Card:
DLT-19 Stormtrooper
Reissued in
Stormtroopers Unit Expansion
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Card:
Jedi Mind Trick
Reissued in
Clone Wars Core Set
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Card:
Stormtroopers
Reissued in
Stormtroopers Unit Expansion
and
Imperial Stormtroopers Upgrade Expansion
(Picture only)
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: Force Collection
(Card:
Admiral Ackbar
(★))
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#064: Range Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
Saw's Renegades Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
Saw's Renegades Expansion Pack
Card:
Cavern Angels Zealot — X-Wing
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
Saw's Renegades Expansion Pack
Card:
Partisan Renegade — U-Wing
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
TIE Reaper Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
TIE Reaper Expansion Pack
Card:
Captain Feroph — TIE Reaper
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
TIE Reaper Expansion Pack
Card:
Death Troopers
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
TIE Reaper Expansion Pack
Card:
ISB Slicer
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#070: Han Solo (Bespin)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
Academy Pilot — TIE/ln Fighter
Reissued in
TIE/ln Fighter Expansion Pack
and
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Star Wars
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Rocket Science: Fighter Design
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
2
Starfighter Aces: Biggs Darklighter — Renegade from the Academy
Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
2018 Topps
Star Wars
Masterwork
Card: Bo-Katan Kryze
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
BTL-A4 Y-Wing Expansion Pack
Card:
Gray Squadron Bomber — BTL-A4 Y-Wing
Reissued in
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Admiral Sloane
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Agent Kallus
Reissued in
VT-49 Decimator Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Baron of the Empire — TIE Advanced v1
Reissued in
Inquisitors' TIE Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Darth Vader (Crew)
Reissued in
VT-49 Decimator Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Emperor Palpatine
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Grand Inquisitor (Crew)
Reissued in
VT-49 Decimator Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Grand Moff Tarkin
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Inquisitor — TIE Advanced v1
Reissued in
Inquisitors' TIE Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Minister Tua
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Moff Jerjerrod
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Patrol Leader — VT-49 Decimator
Reissued in
VT-49 Decimator Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Planetary Sentinel — TIE/sk Striker
Reissued in
TIE/sk Striker Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
ST-321
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Seventh Sister (Crew)
Reissued in
VT-49 Decimator Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Card:
Dauntless
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE Advanced x1 Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE Advanced x1 Expansion Pack
Card:
Maarek Stele — Servant of the Empire — TIE Advanced x1
Reissued in
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
and
Galactic Empire Squadron Starter Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE Advanced x1 Expansion Pack
Card:
Ruthless
Reissued in
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Bodhi Rook — UT-60D U-Wing
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Engine Upgrade
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
and
BTA-NR2 Y-Wing Expansion Packs
,
Scum and Villainy
and
Resistance Conversion Kits
, and
Fugitives and Collaborators Squadron Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Phoenix Squadron Pilot — RZ-1 A-Wing
Reissued in
RZ-1 A-Wing Expansion Pack
and
Phoenix Cell Squadron Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Scum and Villainy Conversion Kit
Card:
Hired Gun — BTL-A4 Y-Wing
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars: Women of the Galaxy
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: Droidography
Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide
2018 Topps Finest
Star Wars
Card: Bo-Katan Kryze
Star Wars: The Dark Side
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/fo Fighter Expansion Pack
Card:
Zeta Squadron Pilot — TIE/fo Fighter
Reissued in
First Order Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Mining Guild TIE Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Mining Guild TIE Expansion Pack
Card:
Mining Guild Sentry — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Mining Guild TIE Expansion Pack
Card:
Mining Guild Surveyor — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
RZ-2 A-Wing Expansion Pack
Card:
Blue Squadron Recruit — RZ-2 A-Wing
Reissued in
Heralds of Hope Squadron Pack
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
24
Starfighter Aces: CR-978 — Elite But Expendable
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Search and Find Volume I
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Rebellion
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Allies and Adversaries
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Empire
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Rise of the Separatists
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Star Wars Timeline
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Collapse of the Republic
Star Wars By the Numbers
:
Every Droid in Star Wars
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Gadgets and Gear
Star Wars: Creatures Big & Small
(Emblem only)
LEGO
Star Wars
(Set:
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
)
Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The First Order
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars By the Numbers
:
Every Type of Ship in Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Epic Battles Multiplayer Expansion
Card:
Agent of the Empire
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Admiral Ozzel
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Captain Needa
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
First Order Collaborators —
Raider
-class Corvette
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Outer Rim Patrol —
Raider
-class Corvette
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Jedi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Alexsandr Kallus
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Captain Canady
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Darth Vader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Death Trooper
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Gooti Terez
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Griff Halloran
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Hera Syndulla
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Jyn Erso
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
K-2SO
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Princess Leia
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Purge Trooper
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Sabine Wren
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
The Grand Inquisitor
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
The Second Sister
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Weeteef Cyu-Bee
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Wicket W. Warrick
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Yogar Lyste
The Art of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
62
Starfighter Aces: R2-D2 — Going Solo
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Dark Side Rising
Starships and Speeders
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#165: Remnant Stormtrooper
)
(
backup link
)
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
97
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#10: Beru Lars
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#11: Bo-Katan Kryze
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#28: Governor Pryce
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#29: Greeata
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#38: Korr Sella
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#45: Lyra Erso
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#46: Maketh Tua
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#60: Princess Leia Organa
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#62: Queen Apailana
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#74: Second Sister Inquisitor
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#76: Seventh Sister Inquisitor
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#93: Toryn Farr
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#94: Ursa Wren
(backup link not available)
"Deal No Deal" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Art of Star Wars Rebels
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Legacy
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Cast
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Practical
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Process
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Score
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Connections
"
Star Wars: Squadrons
Screenshots
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Admiral Ackbar
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Bistan
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Chewbacca
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Darth Sidious
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Darth Vader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Dengar
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Enfys Nest
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Fenn Rau
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
General Draven
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
General Veers
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Hondo Ohnaka
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
IG-88
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Lando Calrissian (TESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Mart Mattin
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Princess Leia
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
R2-D2
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
RX-24
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Range Trooper
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Ryder Azadi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Saw Gerrera
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Snowtrooper
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Stormtrooper
Star Wars
Day-at-a-Time Calendar 2021
"
Imperial Troops
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
R2-D2
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Star Wars Book
Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Admiral Ackbar
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Griff Halloran
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Moff Gideon
"The Mandalorian" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"The Prisoner" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"The Reckoning" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Carida Academy Cadet — TIE/rb Heavy
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Ion Limiter Override
Reissued in
Nimbus
-class V-Wing Expansion Pack
,
Fury of the First Order Squadron Pack
, and
Pride of Mandalore Reinforcements Pack
(Picture only)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Lyttan Dree — TIE/rb Heavy
(Picture only)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Maneuver-Assist MGK-300
(Picture only)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Onyx Squadron Sentry — TIE/rb Heavy
(Picture only)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
"Rampage" — TIE/rb Heavy
(Picture only)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
Target-Assist MGK-300
(Picture only)
"
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
Lightsabers and Jedi Equipment
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Art of Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Season One
The Mandalorian: Allies & Enemies
"
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
A Seat on the Council
" —
Star Wars Insider
199
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
100
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of Season Two
"
"
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Jedi Knight Vernestra Rwoh: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
C-3PO
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Avar Kriss | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
The Nihil: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
:
A Deep Dive Into Star Wars: The High Republic, Bringing A Younger Yoda to Life (in VR), and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Figure:
#12: Koska Reeves
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Grand Admiral Thrawn
)
(
backup link
)
Jedi Padawan Bell Zettifar | Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Chancellor Lina Soh | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume Two
Star Wars A to Z
:
Sabine
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
"
Blasters and Ranged Weapons
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Hot Toys Movie Masterpiece Series
(Sixth Scale Figure:
#574: Boba Fett
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Skystrike Academy Squadron Pack
Card:
Ciena Ree — TIE/in Interceptor
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base - Series 2
,
Card:
The Second Sister
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
Figure:
#03: Elite Squad Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: List It!
:
10 Helpful Droids
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars Wise Words
:
Obi-Wan Kenobi
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
202
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Imperial Death Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Imperial Hovertank Driver
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Shoretrooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga
– The Official Collector's Edition
The Mandalorian: Magnetic Fun
(Mentioned only)
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Replacements" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
: Guide to Season One
"
Emperor Palpatine
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"Decommissioned" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"
Anakin Skywalker
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"Battle Scars" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
Day-at-a-Time Calendar 2022
"Reunion" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Gaming Greats Figure:
#03: Flametrooper
)
(
backup link
)
"Common Ground" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Devil's Deal" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Rescue on Ryloth" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Kamino Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
Inside Intel: The Death Star
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of the Season 2 Finale
"
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#198: Luke Skywalker (Endor)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Electronic Helmet:
First Order Stormtrooper
)
(
backup link
)
"
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Gentle Giant Mini Busts
(Pack:
Death Watch
)
(
backup link
)
(Erroneously mentioned)
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
Figure:
#07: Imperial Clone Shock Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
Figure:
#08: Vice Admiral Rampart
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
Figure:
#09: Crosshair (Imperial)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#01: Jyn Erso
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#03: K-2SO
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Handbook
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#05: Baze Malbus
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#06: Bodhi Rook
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
: Best of 2021
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#226: Bo-Katan Kryze
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Figure:
#10: Bo-Katan Kryze
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(4-Pack:
Stormtroopers
)
(
backup link
)
"
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Star Wars
Inside Intel: Mandalorian Armor
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
"
General Equipment (2)
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Star Wars: The Black Series Carbonized Collection
(Pack:
Scout Trooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series Carbonized Collection
(Pack:
Shoretrooper
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: A New Hope
Figure:
#01: Princess Leia Organa (Yavin 4)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Figure:
Trapper Wolf
)
(
backup link
)
"
Pilots of the Rebel Alliance
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
5 Highlights From the
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Teaser Trailer
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"
Crime and Punishment
" —
Star Wars Insider
209
Ships of the Galaxy: The
Halcyon
Starcruiser
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Hot Toys Television Masterpiece Series
(Sixth Scale Figure:
#035: Bo-Katan Kryze
)
(
backup link
)
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Behind the Panels of Marvel's
Star Wars: Obi-Wan
#1 – Exclusive
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
5 Highlights from the
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Trailer
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
This New
Star Wars
Day Merchandise Is Actually Quite Civilized
on
StarWars.com
(recorded on April 29, 2022; content not present on
current version
)
"
The Separatists
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Diego Luna and Genevieve O'Reilly Take The Stage At SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Andor | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Celebration LIVE! – DAY 1
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
SWCA 2022: 5 Highlights from the
Andor
Teaser Trailer
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022:
Andor
Teaser Trailer, Release Date Revealed
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor – Official Teaser
on the official
Electronic Arts
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: Respawn's Stig Asmussen Talks
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
and Reflects on Its Predecessor – Exclusive
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the
Light & Magic
Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Story Behind Lucasfilm and Volkswagen's Fantastic
Obi-Wan Kenobi
-Inspired Vehicles
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Star Wars
Comics – Exclusive Preview
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
The Cast of Obi-Wan Kenobi Talk Darth Vader, Obi-Wan's Daring Mission, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
This Week! in Star Wars
The Obi-Wan Cast Chat About Obi-Wan, Reva's Intentions Are Revealed, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars
Inside Intel: The Inquisitorius
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Star Wars Full Circle
:
Obi-Wan Kenobi
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Talk Family in
Star Wars: The Princess and the Scoundrel
– Exclusive Excerpt
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Star Wars
Comics – Exclusive Preview
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SDCC 2022:
Andor
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
Figure:
#03: Reva (Third Sister)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#242: Reva (Third Sister)
)
(
backup link
)
Andor | Official Trailer | Disney+ (2:25)
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"Reckoning" Episode Guide | Andor
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Retro Collection
(Pack:
Reva (Third Sister)
)
(
backup link
)
"Aldhani" Episode Guide | Andor
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars 100 Objects
Star Wars: Timelines
"
Rewind of the Jedi
" —
Star Wars Insider
218
Star Wars Outlaws: World Premiere Trailer
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
FAQ
on
Ubisoft
's
official website
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Walkthrough | Ubisoft Forward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Meet Kay Vess' Actor | Ubisoft Forward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws™ Opens Up a Galaxy of Opportunity
on
Ubisoft
's
official website
(
June 11
,
2023
)
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Outlaws
Revealed: Get the First Details on Ubisoft's Open-World
Star Wars
Game
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream – June 2023 | #UbiForward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream – June 2023 | #UbiForward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
219
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
220
(Mentioned only)
"
This is Obi-Wan
" —
Star Wars: Meet the Galactic Heroes
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
223
New Book
The Rise of the Galactic Empire
to Explore the Imperial Regime - Exclusive
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Story Trailer Developer Breakdown
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Dispatch: Star Wars Outlaws Coming Soon
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: Return of The Jedi
: The 40th Anniversary Special Edition
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Teaser | Summer Game Fest 2024
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws Official Gameplay: All the Star Wars Lore, Details & Easter Eggs | Ubisoft Forward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Game Overview Trailer | Ubisoft Forward
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Showcase | Ubisoft Forward
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Dispatch: Adventures with Nix
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Galaxy Teaser
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Official PC Gameplay Trailer
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws:  Bringing Nix & ND-5 To Life
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Outlaws: Building An Open World
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
227
(Picture only)
Star Wars Outlaws: A Visual Journey
"
World Building
" —
Star Wars Insider
227
Embrace Your Sneaky Side in
Star Wars Outlaws
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Quiz: Which
Star Wars Outlaws
World Should You Hide Out On?
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars Outlaws Art Blast
on
Ubisoft
's
official website
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
NOW AVAILABLE FOR PRE-ORDER: "THE ART OF STAR WARS OUTLAWS"
on
Dark Horse Comics
'
official website
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars Outlaws: Wild Card
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Dispatch: Wild Card Has Arrived in Star Wars Outlaws
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Game On: A Look at Sabacc and Dejarik
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Outlaws: Title Update 1.4 Overview
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
"
Writing History
" —
Star Wars Insider
231
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
Behind Unlimited: Lessons and Accomplishments of 2024
on
Star Wars
: Unlimited's
official website
(
backup link
)
Figures of Speech:
Andor
's Monologues
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
The Art of Star Wars: Outlaws
Star Wars
Year in Review 2025
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Visual Guide
4-LOM
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
A-wing Fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
A280 Blaster Rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Ackbar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Kassius Konstantine
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Motti
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Ozzel
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Piett
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Raddus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Statura
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Wullf Yularen
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Agamar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Agent Del Meeko
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Agent Gideon Hask
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ahsoka Tano
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alderaan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alderaan Cruiser
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Aldhani
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alexsandr Kallus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alrich Wren
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alton Kastle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Amda Wabo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Anakin Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
anti-air turbolaser tower
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AP-5
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Asteroid Belt Gas Refinery
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-ACT walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-AT Pilots
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-DP Walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-DT walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-Hauler
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-ST Raider
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-ST Walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Azmorigan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
B'omarr monk spider
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
B-wing Fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
B-Wing Prototype (Blade Wing)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Babwa Venomor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bahryn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Base One
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Battle Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Baylan Skoll
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Baze Malbus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Baze Malbus' MWC-35c Repeating Cannon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Beilert Valance
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Benthic Two Tubes
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
beskar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bespin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Biggs Darklighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bistan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bix Caleen
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Black Ace
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Boba Fett
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Boba Fett's Palace
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bode Akuna
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bracca
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Brom Titus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
BT-1
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
C-3PO (See-Threepio)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
C2-B5
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cade
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Camie
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Captain Bragg
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Captain Canady
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Captain Doza's Office
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Captain Hark
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Captain Peavey
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cassian Andor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cere
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Chagrian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Chain Code
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Chewbacca
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cinta Kaz
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cleat
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Clone Captain Howzer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Clone Force 99 / The Bad Batch
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Clone Trooper doll
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Clone Veteran
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cloud City
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Concord Dawn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Conveyex
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Corellia
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Courier Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Crait Rebel base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Crosshair
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cut Lawquane
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dantooine
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darja
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Daro
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darth Vader's lightsaber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Datarod
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
DD-BD
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star Gunners
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star II
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star Plans
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star Scientists
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Trooper BlasTech E-11D Rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Desert Skiff
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Desix
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dhani
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Director Orson Krennic
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
DLT-19 Heavy Blaster Rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Droid decommissioning facility
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
DT-F16
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dyro Felldor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
E-11 Blaster Rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
E-XD Infiltrator Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
EC-17 hold-out blaster
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Echo Base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
EG-86
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Electrostaff
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Eleni Syndulla
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Elite Squad
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Erso Homestead
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ewok
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Executor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Fifth Brother Inquisitor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Finalizer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
First Order AT-AT Walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
First Order Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
First Order TIE Fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Flame cannons
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Fondor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Force Pike
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Freck
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Free Ryloth Movement
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Freetown (Mos Pelgo)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galactic Empire
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galactic Republic
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galactic Senate
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gall Trayvis
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Garindan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Draven
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Pryde
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Quinn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Rieekan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Veers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gerrera's Partisan Fighters
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gobi Glie
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gobi Glie's Starship
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gooti Terez
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Governor Grotton
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Governor Pryce
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gravity lock
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gregor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Grogu
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gron
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gungi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
GX1 Short Hauler
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Halle Burtoni
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Han Solo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
HoloNet News
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Holy City of Jedha
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Hondo Ohnaka
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Horizon Base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Hoth
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Base on Daro
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial clone Shock Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial credits
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Death Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Defense Recruitment Bill
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial doonium refinery
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial
Gozanti
-Class Cruiser
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial medics
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Mobile Surgical Unit
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial patrol speeder
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Planetary Occupation Facility (I.P.O.F.)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Imperial Police Droids
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Probe Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Security Bureau
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial
Sentinel
-Class Shuttle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Shuttle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
incinerator troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jabiim freight transport
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jabiim Hidden Path safehouse
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Order
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kamino sea creature
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kawlan Roken
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kef Bir
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kessel miners
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Krrsantan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lando Calrissian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lieutenant Bolandin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lindon Javes
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lt. Gorn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Major Partagaz
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mapuzo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mapuzo safehouse
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Marrok (Inquisitor)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mas Amedda
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mayfeld
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Medal of Yavin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Millennium Falcon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mimbanese
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mining Guild excavation driller
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Moff Gideon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mon Calamari
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mon Mothma
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Moroff
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mos Espa City Hall
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
mudtroopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Nala Se
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Neeva
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ninth Sister
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ochi of Bestoon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Omega
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Outland TIE fighter
in the
Databank
(
original link
is obsolete)
Pantora
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Patrol Transport
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
patrol troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Prauf
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Proton Torpedo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Purge Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
R5-G9
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
range troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Razor Crest
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel Alliance
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel insignia ring
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rey's Home
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rho-class transport shuttle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Riyo Chuchi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sana Starros
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Savareen refinery
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Scout Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
sea skiff
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Second Sister
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Senate District
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Senator Avi Singh
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Senator Gani Riduli
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sith
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sith Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Slip
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
speeder bike
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Stinger Mantis
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Stormtroopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sully Stark
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Super Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Supply Master Yogar Lyste
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Syril Karn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
T-7 Ion Disruptor Rifles
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tala Durith
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Taramyn Barcona
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tatooine
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tawni Ames
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Terisa Kerrill
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Client
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Force
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The
Ghost
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Grand Inquisitor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Graveyard of Ships
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The New Republic
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
the Starhawk
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Temperance
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
TIE Bomber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
TIE fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
TIE silencer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tipoca City
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tipoca City Training Facility
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Titan Squadron
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Tosche Station
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Toshara
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Valin Hess
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vandor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vanguard Axis
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vanguard Squadron
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Var-Shaa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Varko Grey
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vel Sartha
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Venator
-class Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Venisa Doza
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vice Admiral Rampart
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wedge Antilles
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Weeteef Cyu-Bee
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wes Janson
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wicket W. Warrick
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wilmon Paak
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wobani
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wookiee
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
world between worlds
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wullffwarro
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wynkahthu
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
X-wing Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Y-wing Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yanna
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yarma
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yavin 4
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yoda
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yushyn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Zeffo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Non-canon sources
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
Star Wars: Visions Filmmaker Focus
— "
Lop & Ochō
"
The Art of Star Wars: Visions
Notes and references
↑
1.0
1.1
Andor
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 9, "Nobody's Listening!"
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
2.00
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
↑
3.00
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
3.06
3.07
3.08
3.09
3.10
3.11
3.12
3.13
3.14
3.15
3.16
3.17
3.18
3.19
3.20
3.21
3.22
3.23
3.24
3.25
3.26
3.27
3.28
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
↑
4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
↑
5.00
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
5.08
5.09
5.10
5.11
5.12
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
↑
6.0
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8
Star Wars: Timelines
↑
7.00
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
7.09
7.10
7.11
7.12
7.13
7.14
7.15
7.16
7.17
7.18
7.19
7.20
7.21
7.22
7.23
7.24
7.25
7.26
7.27
7.28
7.29
7.30
7.31
7.32
7.33
7.34
7.35
7.36
7.37
Aftermath: Empire's End
↑
Aftermath: Empire's End
features the
Battle of Jakku
, an event that
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
dates to
5 ABY
.
↑
9.00
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
9.05
9.06
9.07
9.08
9.09
9.10
9.11
9.12
9.13
9.14
9.15
9.16
9.17
9.18
9.19
9.20
9.21
9.22
9.23
9.24
9.25
9.26
9.27
9.28
9.29
9.30
9.31
9.32
9.33
9.34
9.35
9.36
9.37
9.38
9.39
9.40
9.41
9.42
9.43
9.44
9.45
9.46
Aftermath: Life Debt
↑
10.0
10.1
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Aftermath: Life Debt
to
5 ABY
.
↑
11.00
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
11.06
11.07
11.08
11.09
11.10
11.11
11.12
11.13
11.14
11.15
11.16
11.17
11.18
11.19
11.20
11.21
11.22
11.23
11.24
11.25
11.26
11.27
11.28
11.29
11.30
11.31
11.32
11.33
11.34
11.35
11.36
11.37
11.38
11.39
11.40
11.41
11.42
11.43
11.44
11.45
11.46
11.47
11.48
11.49
11.50
11.51
11.52
Tarkin
↑
12.0
12.1
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Imperial Royal Guard
Star Wars Universe: The Emperor's Inner Circle
↑
13.00
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
13.08
13.09
13.10
13.11
13.12
13.13
13.14
13.15
13.16
13.17
13.18
13.19
13.20
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
↑
14.00
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
14.05
14.06
14.07
14.08
14.09
Dawn of Rebellion
↑
15.0
15.1
The
Imperial Senate
was founded in
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
and disbanded by Galactic Emperor Sheev Palpatine in
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
, which
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
dates to
19 BBY
and
1 BBY
, respectively.
↑
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
↑
Starships and Speeders
↑
18.00
18.01
18.02
18.03
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
18.10
18.11
18.12
18.13
18.14
18.15
18.16
18.17
18.18
18.19
18.20
18.21
18.22
18.23
18.24
18.25
Aftermath
↑
19.00
19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
19.06
19.07
19.08
19.09
19.10
19.11
19.12
19.13
19.14
19.15
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
↑
20.0
20.1
20.2
20.3
20.4
20.5
20.6
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Empire Day
"
↑
"Empire Day" Episode Guide | Star Wars Rebels
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part One: Master and Apprentice
"
↑
23.0
23.1
23.2
The First Order
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
24.00
24.01
24.02
24.03
24.04
24.05
24.06
24.07
24.08
24.09
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Two: Toil and Trouble
"
↑
26.0
26.1
26.2
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of "
Chapter 1: The Mandalorian
" of
The Mandalorian
Season One
to
9 ABY
. In addition,
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
228
also dates "
Part Seven: Dreams and Madness
" to nine
years
after the events of
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
, which corresponds to 9
ABY
per
Timelines
. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" takes place after the
liberation of Mandalore
, which is the main event depicted in "
Chapter 23: The Spies
" and "
Chapter 24: The Return
," the final two episodes of
The Mandalorian
Season Three
. Therefore, Seasons One through Three of
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
must all be set in 9 ABY as well.
↑
27.0
27.1
27.2
27.3
27.4
27.5
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 23: The Spies
"
↑
28.0
28.1
28.2
28.3
28.4
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
↑
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
states that the First Order was publicly formed five
years
before the
Starkiller Incident
, which
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
dates to
34 ABY
. Therefore, the First Order's official formation must have happened in
29 ABY
.
↑
Star Wars
: Episode IX
The Rise of Skywalker
↑
31.0
31.1
31.2
31.3
Star Wars
: Episode II
Attack of the Clones
↑
32.0
32.1
32.2
32.3
32.4
Star Wars: Squadrons
↑
33.0
33.1
33.2
33.3
Star Wars
: Episode I
The Phantom Menace
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Lost One
"
↑
35.0
35.1
Queen's Hope
↑
36.0
36.1
36.2
36.3
Star Wars Outlaws
↑
37.0
37.1
37.2
37.3
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Crisis at the Heart
"
↑
"Crisis at the Heart" Trivia Gallery
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Image 5 caption)
↑
HoloNet News
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sabotage
"
↑
42.0
42.1
"
Rebel Rousers: Our Top Ten Rebels
" —
Star Wars Insider
203
↑
43.0
43.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Pursuit of Peace
"
↑
44.0
44.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Duchess of Mandalore
"
↑
45.00
45.01
45.02
45.03
45.04
45.05
45.06
45.07
45.08
45.09
45.10
45.11
45.12
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Announcement
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Heroes on Both Sides
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Senate Murders
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Conspiracy
"
↑
49.00
49.01
49.02
49.03
49.04
49.05
49.06
49.07
49.08
49.09
49.10
49.11
49.12
49.13
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
↑
50.0
50.1
50.2
50.3
50.4
50.5
50.6
Crimson Reign
3
↑
51.0
51.1
51.2
51.3
Darth Vader
(2017) 1
↑
52.0
52.1
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
229
↑
53.0
53.1
53.2
Leia, Princess of Alderaan
↑
54.00
54.01
54.02
54.03
54.04
54.05
54.06
54.07
54.08
54.09
54.10
54.11
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
↑
55.0
55.1
55.2
55.3
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
↑
56.0
56.1
56.2
56.3
56.4
56.5
56.6
Alphabet Squadron
↑
57.00
57.01
57.02
57.03
57.04
57.05
57.06
57.07
57.08
57.09
57.10
57.11
57.12
57.13
Battlefront: Twilight Company
↑
58.00
58.01
58.02
58.03
58.04
58.05
58.06
58.07
58.08
58.09
58.10
Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel
↑
59.0
59.1
59.2
Rebel Journal by Ezra Bridger
↑
60.0
60.1
60.2
60.3
60.4
60.5
Ahsoka
↑
61.00
61.01
61.02
61.03
61.04
61.05
61.06
61.07
61.08
61.09
61.10
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
↑
62.0
62.1
62.2
"
Win, Lose, or Draw
" —
Star Wars Insider
231
↑
63.00
63.01
63.02
63.03
63.04
63.05
63.06
63.07
63.08
63.09
63.10
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
↑
64.0
64.1
Star Wars
(2020) 46
↑
65.0
65.1
65.2
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Cornered
"
↑
66.0
66.1
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Chewbacca–Cloud City
↑
67.0
67.1
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 13
↑
68.0
68.1
68.2
Solo: A Star Wars Story
↑
69.0
69.1
69.2
Crimson Reign
1
↑
70.0
70.1
70.2
Hidden Empire
1
↑
Darth Vader
(2017) 6
↑
72.0
72.1
72.2
72.3
72.4
Star Wars: Uprising
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rebel Resolve
"
↑
74.0
74.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Always Two There Are
"
↑
Star Wars: Tales of the Underworld
— "
Friends
"
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Rescue on Ryloth
"
↑
77.0
77.1
77.2
77.3
77.4
Lords of the Sith
↑
78.00
78.01
78.02
78.03
78.04
78.05
78.06
78.07
78.08
78.09
78.10
78.11
78.12
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Aldhani
"
↑
79.0
79.1
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
↑
80.0
80.1
80.2
80.3
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Nobody's Listening!
"
↑
81.0
81.1
81.2
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Kassa
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Announcement
"
(
Disney+
audio description)
↑
"Announcement" Trivia Gallery | Andor
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Slide 5)
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Reckoning
"
↑
85.0
85.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
That Would Be Me
"
↑
86.0
86.1
86.2
86.3
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
↑
87.0
87.1
87.2
87.3
87.4
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 12: The Siege
"
↑
88.0
88.1
As noted
here
, the events
Andor
Season One
—and therefore the events of the episodes "
Aldhani
," "
The Axe Forgets
, and "
The Eye
"—take place in
5 BBY
. In "Aldhani,"
Vel Sartha
states that the Galactic Empire arrived on
Aldhani
thirteen
years prior
, therefore dating its arrival to
18 BBY
. In "The Eye,"
Jayhold Beehaz
notes the Imperial-approved viewing festival was established a
decade
prior, placing the beginning of that event in
15 BBY
.
↑
Aldhani
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
90.0
90.1
90.2
90.3
90.4
90.5
90.6
Star Wars: Andor
— "
The Eye
"
↑
91.0
91.1
91.2
91.3
Star Wars: Andor
— "
One Year Later
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
What a Festive Evening
"
↑
93.00
93.01
93.02
93.03
93.04
93.05
93.06
93.07
93.08
93.09
93.10
93.11
93.12
93.13
93.14
93.15
93.16
93.17
93.18
93.19
93.20
93.21
93.22
93.23
Lost Stars
↑
94.0
94.1
94.2
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
↑
95.0
95.1
Edrio Two Tubes
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
96.0
96.1
96.2
96.3
96.4
96.5
A New Dawn
↑
"
The End of History
" —
Star Wars Insider
154
↑
98.0
98.1
Star Wars Rebels: Heroes of Mandalore
↑
99.0
99.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Imperial Supercommandos
"
↑
Rebels Recon
#3.06: Inside "Imperial Super Commandos" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Tarkin
to
14 BBY
.
↑
102.0
102.1
102.2
102.3
102.4
Darth Vader
(2015) 1
↑
103.0
103.1
103.2
103.3
103.4
HoloNet News
Report: Imperial Registration Program
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
↑
104.0
104.1
104.2
104.3
104.4
Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion
↑
105.0
105.1
105.2
105.3
Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal
↑
106.00
106.01
106.02
106.03
106.04
106.05
106.06
106.07
106.08
106.09
106.10
106.11
106.12
106.13
106.14
106.15
106.16
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
↑
107.0
107.1
107.2
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
↑
Rebel Rising
↑
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
↑
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
↑
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
↑
Star Wars: Rogue One: Secret Mission
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of "
Brain Invaders
," in which the
second occupation of Geonosis
starts, to
21 BBY
.
Dawn of Rebellion
specifies that the Empire continued to hold its presence on
Geonosis
until the
sterilization of Geonosis
, which is dated to circa
9 BBY
by
Star Wars: Timelines
.
↑
114.0
114.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Ghosts of Geonosis
"
↑
Klik-Klak
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
↑
117.0
117.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Rix Road
"
↑
118.0
118.1
118.2
118.3
118.4
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Narkina 5
"
↑
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
What a Festive Evening
"
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
to
9 BBY
.
↑
122.0
122.1
122.2
122.3
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part I
"
↑
123.0
123.1
123.2
123.3
123.4
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part II
"
↑
124.0
124.1
124.2
124.3
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part III
"
↑
125.0
125.1
125.2
125.3
125.4
125.5
125.6
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part IV
"
↑
126.0
126.1
126.2
Director Orson Krennic
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
What a Festive Evening
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Ever Been to Ghorman?
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Jedha, Kyber, Erso
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Rix Road
"
↑
131.0
131.1
131.2
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fire Across the Galaxy
"
↑
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
dated the events of
Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal
to
5 BBY
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rise of the Old Masters
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Call to Action
"
↑
Rebels Recon
#3.11: Inside "Ghosts of Geonosis" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
↑
Mustafar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
137.0
137.1
137.2
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Lost Commanders
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Relics of the Old Republic
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Wings of the Master
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Stealth Strike
"
↑
141.0
141.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legacy
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A Princess on Lothal
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Protector of Concord Dawn
"
↑
144.0
144.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Twilight of the Apprentice
"
↑
145.0
145.1
145.2
145.3
Star Wars Rebels: Steps Into Shadow
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Antilles Extraction
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Hera's Heroes
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Iron Squadron
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
An Inside Man
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Visions and Voices
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Warhead
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legacy of Mandalore
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Through Imperial Eyes
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Secret Cargo
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Double Agent Droid
"
↑
156.0
156.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Zero Hour
"
↑
157.0
157.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
In the Name of the Rebellion
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Occupation
"
↑
159.0
159.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Family Reunion – and Farewell
"
↑
Guardians of the Whills
↑
Rogue One Adaptation
4
↑
Jedha
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
↑
164.00
164.01
164.02
164.03
164.04
164.05
164.06
164.07
164.08
164.09
164.10
164.11
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
↑
165.0
165.1
"
One Thousand Levels Down
" —
Star Wars Insider
151
↑
166.0
166.1
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
↑
"
Last Call at the Zero Angle
" —
Star Wars Insider
156
↑
168.0
168.1
168.2
168.3
168.4
168.5
Heir to the Jedi
↑
169.0
169.1
Star Wars
(2015) 1
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 2
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 3
↑
Darth Vader
(2015) 2
↑
Darth Vader
(2015) 7
↑
Darth Vader
(2015) 25
↑
Vader Down
1
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 22
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 24
↑
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 2
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 37
↑
The Last Jedi – The Storms of Crait
1
↑
181.0
181.1
181.2
181.3
181.4
181.5
181.6
181.7
"
Epilogue
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
↑
182.0
182.1
182.2
182.3
182.4
182.5
182.6
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 37
↑
183.0
183.1
183.2
183.3
183.4
183.5
183.6
183.7
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 38
↑
184.0
184.1
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 39
↑
185.0
185.1
185.2
185.3
185.4
185.5
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 40
↑
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 25
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
to
3 ABY
.
↑
188.00
188.01
188.02
188.03
188.04
188.05
188.06
188.07
188.08
188.09
188.10
188.11
188.12
188.13
The Princess and the Scoundrel
↑
189.0
189.1
189.2
Bounty Hunters
3
↑
190.0
190.1
190.2
190.3
190.4
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
↑
STAR WARS: DARTH VADER 42
on
Penguin Random House's
Comics Retail website
(
backup link
)
↑
"
The Levers of Power
" —
The Rise of the Empire
↑
Shattered Empire
1
↑
Star Wars: Return of the Jedi
junior novelization
↑
195.0
195.1
195.2
195.3
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 9: The Marshal
"
↑
196.0
196.1
3 New Official Star Wars Characters Revealed
by Albert, Brian on
IGN
(
June 4
,
2015
)
(
backup link
)
↑
197.00
197.01
197.02
197.03
197.04
197.05
197.06
197.07
197.08
197.09
Star Wars Battlefront II
↑
198.0
198.1
Shattered Empire
2
↑
199.0
199.1
Shattered Empire
3
↑
200.0
200.1
200.2
200.3
200.4
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith
↑
Shattered Empire
4
↑
202.0
202.1
202.2
202.3
202.4
202.5
202.6
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
↑
203.0
203.1
203.2
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
↑
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Starship Graveyard—Jakku
(
backup link
)
↑
205.0
205.1
205.2
Star Wars Battlefront
↑
206.0
206.1
206.2
206.3
206.4
206.5
Bloodline
↑
"
Blade Squadron: Jakku
" —
Star Wars Insider
172
↑
Poe Dameron
9
↑
209.0
209.1
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
3
↑
210.0
210.1
210.2
210.3
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
4
↑
Rey's Survival Guide
↑
212.00
212.01
212.02
212.03
212.04
212.05
212.06
212.07
212.08
212.09
212.10
212.11
212.12
212.13
212.14
212.15
212.16
212.17
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 8: Redemption
"
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
: Guide to Season One
↑
Stormtroopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
↑
216.0
216.1
216.2
Shadow of the Sith
↑
217.0
217.1
217.2
217.3
217.4
The Star Wars Book
↑
218.0
218.1
218.2
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
↑
Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising
↑
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
↑
221.0
221.1
221.2
221.3
221.4
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
The Path of Hate
"
↑
222.0
222.1
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part One: Master and Apprentice
"
↑
224.0
224.1
224.2
224.3
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Two: Toil and Trouble
"
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Three: Time to Fly
"
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
"
↑
227.0
227.1
227.2
227.3
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 15: The Believer
"
↑
Star Systems of the Galaxy
on
StarWars.com
(
current version
) (
backup link
) (
previous version
)
— Based on corresponding data for the
Morak system
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of "
Chapter 15: The Believer
," including the appearance of the
Morak Imperial refinery
, to
9 ABY
.
↑
Star Wars: Legion
—
Moff Gideon Commander Expansion
↑
2022 Topps Finest
Star Wars
Card: Moff Gideon
↑
"
The Anti-Hero's Journey
" —
Star Wars Insider
217
↑
233.00
233.01
233.02
233.03
233.04
233.05
233.06
233.07
233.08
233.09
233.10
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 1: The Mandalorian
"
↑
234.00
234.01
234.02
234.03
234.04
234.05
234.06
234.07
234.08
234.09
234.10
234.11
234.12
234.13
234.14
234.15
234.16
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 11: The Heiress
"
↑
235.00
235.01
235.02
235.03
235.04
235.05
235.06
235.07
235.08
235.09
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 3: The Sin
"
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 14: The Tragedy
"
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 22: Guns for Hire
"
↑
"
Making History: Five Years of
The Mandalorian
" —
Star Wars Insider
228
↑
As established
here
, the events of
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
occur in
9 ABY
. Within "
Chapter 12: The Siege
,"
Chandrila
is mentioned to be the
capital
of the
New Republic
. However,
Making History: Five Years of
The Mandalorian
establishes that, as of the later episode "
Chapter 19: The Convert
,"
Coruscant
had taken over as the capital. As both episodes take place in 9
ABY
, the switch in capitals must have occurred in that
year
.
↑
240.00
240.01
240.02
240.03
240.04
240.05
240.06
240.07
240.08
240.09
240.10
240.11
240.12
240.13
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 7: The Reckoning
"
↑
"
Return of the Jedi
: The End of the Beginning
" —
Star Wars Insider
217
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of "
Chapter 1: The Mandalorian
" of
The Mandalorian
Season One
to
9 ABY
. In addition,
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
228
also dates "
Part Seven: Dreams and Madness
" to nine
years
after the events of
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
, which corresponds to 9
ABY
per
Timelines
. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" takes place after the
liberation of Mandalore
, which is the main event depicted in "
Chapter 23: The Spies
" and "
Chapter 24: The Return
," the final two episodes of
The Mandalorian
Season Three
. Therefore, Seasons One through Three of
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
must all be set in 9 ABY as well.
↑
243.0
243.1
243.2
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 2: The Child
"
↑
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Moff Gideon
↑
245.0
245.1
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
The Client
↑
"
The Journey of Din Djarin
" —
Star Wars Insider
216
↑
247.0
247.1
The Mandalorian
Junior Novel
↑
2020 Topps
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Season 1
Card:
The Client
(
backup link
)
↑
"
Lando Calrissian and Other Characters From the Galaxy
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
↑
"
Post-Galactic Civil War and the Mandalorian
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
↑
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
↑
252.0
252.1
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 4: Sanctuary
"
↑
253.0
253.1
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 5: The Gunslinger
"
↑
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian
"
↑
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
↑
The Mandalorian
8
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 10: The Passenger
"
↑
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
"
↑
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
↑
The events of
Shadow of the Sith
take place in
21 ABY
per '
Star Wars: Timelines
↑
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
211
↑
"
Writing History
" —
Star Wars Insider
231
↑
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
↑
Star Wars
: Episode IX
The Rise of Skywalker
↑
Crimson Reign
1
↑
Yoda
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
Galactic Empire
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
268.0
268.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Pursuit of Peace
"
↑
269.0
269.1
"
Senate Perspective
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
9
↑
270.0
270.1
"
Lord Vader Will See You Now
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
↑
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 35
↑
Star Wars: Commander
, "The Sickness" campaign
↑
273.0
273.1
"
Rewind of the Jedi
" —
Star Wars Insider
218
↑
Age of Rebellion - Darth Vader
1
↑
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
↑
276.0
276.1
Rogue One Adaptation
1
↑
277.0
277.1
277.2
Darth Vader
(2017) 13
↑
Lando
2
↑
279.0
279.1
279.2
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
↑
280.0
280.1
280.2
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
↑
Dawn of Rebellion
↑
HoloNet News
Special Report: Journalists Across Galaxy Join Press Corps
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
↑
283.0
283.1
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
↑
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Head to Head
↑
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Imperial Royal Guard
Star Wars Universe: The Emperor's Inner Circle
↑
The Rebellion Begins
↑
288.00
288.01
288.02
288.03
288.04
288.05
288.06
288.07
288.08
288.09
288.10
Thrawn
↑
Vader - Dark Visions
4
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Rebels Versus Empire Ultimate Sticker Book
↑
Darth Vader
(2015) 4
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Droids in Distress
"
↑
Star Wars: Commander
↑
"
The Final Order
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
↑
Hunters: Battle for the Arena
↑
Ultimate Star Wars
↑
"
Ion Control
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
↑
"
The Witness
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
↑
Andor
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 7, "Announcement"
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Cut and Run
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
↑
Cyphers and Masks
↑
303.0
303.1
Ezra's Gamble
↑
Star Wars: Complete Locations
↑
Crimson Reign
2
↑
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
↑
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Juggernaut
"
↑
Thrawn: Treason
↑
War of the Bounty Hunters
5
↑
Star Wars: Uprising
—Crew Member: "Tei-Untisian Pickpocket"
↑
312.0
312.1
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
↑
Mining Guild TIE fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Mining Guild
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
"
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
" —
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
to
9 BBY
.
↑
Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Forgotten Droid
"
↑
319.0
319.1
HoloNet News
Special Report: Journalists Across Galaxy Join Press Corps
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
↑
320.0
320.1
The Protectors
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
HoloNet News
Special Report: Controversial Statue Finally Destroyed
(
backup link
) (
original site
is defunct)
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Fight the Empire
↑
"
The Force of… Sports
" —
Star Wars Insider
232
↑
324.0
324.1
324.2
324.3
324.4
324.5
324.6
324.7
324.8
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
225
↑
Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
326.0
326.1
Darth Vader
(2015) 5
↑
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
↑
Star Wars: Commander
↑
"
Rebel Bluff
" —
Star Wars Insider
158
↑
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
↑
Darth Vader
(2017) 21
↑
"
World Building
" —
Star Wars Insider
227
↑
Thrawn: Alliances
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fighter Flight
"
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 16: The Rescue
"
↑
336.0
336.1
Battlefront II: Inferno Squad
↑
337.0
337.1
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
↑
"
An Incident Report
" —
From a Certain Point of View
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Aftermath
"
↑
Adventures in Wild Space: The Escape
↑
Chris Taylor.
How Star Wars Conquered the Universe
, 409–410.
↑
It's a Trap: Emperor Palpatine's Poison Pill
(
PDF
4) by Zachary Feinstein on
arxiv.org
(
December 1
,
2015
)
(
backup link
)
↑
Jason Fry Keeps Talking To Us: Wired For The Classics
by Mike Cooper on
Eleven-ThirtyEight
(
November 14
,
2014
)
(
backup link
)
↑
Revenge of the Sith
invites Bush Comparisons, page 2
on CBSNews.com: "Lucas said he patterned his story after historical transformations from freedom to fascism, never figuring when he started his prequel trilogy in the late 1990s that current events might parallel his space fantasy. "As you go through history, I didn't think it was going to get quite this close. So it's just one of those recurring things," Lucas said at a Cannes news conference. "I hope this doesn't come tru in our country." […] "Maybe the film will waken people to the situation," Lucas joked. […] "When I wrote it, [the 2003 Iraq war] didn't exist," Lucas said laughing. "We were just funding Saddam Hussein and giving him weapons of mass destruction. We didn't think of him as an enemy at that time. We were going after Iran and using him as our surrogate, just as we were doing in Vietnam. […] The parallels between what we did in Vietnam and what we're doing in Iraq now are unbelievable." The prequel trilogy is based on a back-story outline Lucas created in the mid-1970s for the original three "Star Wars" movies, so the themes percolated out of the Vietnam War and the Nixon-Watergate era, he said. Lucas began researching how democracies can turn into dictatorships with full consent of the electorate. In Ancient Rome, "why did the senate after killing Caesar turn around and give the government to his nephew?" Lucas said. "Why did France after they got rid of the king and that whole system turn around and give it to Napoleon? It's the same thing with Germany and Hitler." "You sort of see these recurring themes where a democracy turns itself into a dictatorship, and it always seems to happen kind of in the same way, with the same kinds of issues, and threats from the outside, needing more control. A democratic body, a senate, not being able to function properly because everybody's squabbling, there's corruption.""
(
backup link
)
↑
Lucas: 'Star Wars' isn't Iraq wars
on USAToday.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
home video release
↑
347.0
347.1
The Making of Star Wars
, pages 7-8; 17
"I started to work on Star Wars rather then continue Apocalypse Now. I had worked on Apocalypse Now for about four years and I had very strong feelings about it. I wanted to do it, but could not get it off the ground... A lot of my interest in Apocalypse Now was carried over into Star Wars. I figured I couldn't make that film because it was about the Vietnam War, so I would essentially deal with some of the same interesting concepts that I was going to use and convert them into space fantasy, so you'd have essentially a large technological empire going after a small group of freedom fighters or human beings [...] a small independent country like North Vietnam threatened by a neighbor or provincial rebellion, instigated by gangsters aided by empire. [...] The Empire is like America ten years from now, after Nixonian gangsters assassinated the Emperor and were elevated to power in a rigged election; created civil disorder by instigating race riots aiding rebel groups and allowing the crime rate to rise to the point where a 'total control' police state was welcomed by the people. Then the people were exploited with high taxes, utility and transport costs. Gangsters, a cartel made up of power companies, transport companies & crime organizations. Other companies had to pay bribes to stay in business.
They increased the crime rate by slowing down the system of justice and punishment."
↑
'Star Wars' inadvertently hits to close to U.S.'s role
on
Chicago Tribune
(
backup link
)
↑
How 'Star Wars' was secretly George Lucas' Vietnam protest
by Kyle Smith on New York Post (
October 21
,
2014
)
(
backup link
)
↑
'Star Wars' is a Metaphor for the Vietcong Kicking American Ass in the Vietnam War?
on
www.yomyomf.com
(
December 16
,
2015
)
(
backup link
)
↑
The Making of Star Wars
"A lot of my [George Lucas's] interest in Apocalypse Now was carried over into
Star Wars
, I figured that I couldn't make that film because it was about the Vietnam War, so I would essentially deal with some of the same interesting concepts that I was going to use and convert them into space fantasy, so you'd have essentially a large technological empire going after a small group of freedom fighters or human beings."
↑
Dark Victory
on
Time
: "I'm more on the liberal side of things," [George Lucas] says. "I grew up in San Francisco in the '60s, and my positions are sort of shaped by that … If you look back 30 years ago, there were certain issues with the Kennedys, with Richard Nixon, that focused my interest." Lucas's own geopolitics can sound pretty bleak: "All democracies turn into dictatorships-but not by coup. The people give their democracy to a dictator, whether it's Julius Caesar or Napoleon or Adolf Hitler. Ultimately, the general population goes along with the idea … What kinds of things push people and institutions into this direction?"
(
backup link
)
↑
353.0
353.1
Star Wars: Visions
— "
Lop & Ochō
"
↑
Star Wars: Visions
Volume 1
↑
Anime Expo Lite: 20 Things We Learned from the
Star Wars: Visions
Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Visions
— "
THE TWINS
"
↑
Star Wars: Visions
— "
T0-B1
"
↑
358.0
358.1
Star Wars: Visions
— "
In the Stars
"
↑
Star Wars: Visions
Volume 2
↑
Star Wars: Visions
Volume 2 Release Date, Studios Revealed
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Visions
— "
The Spy Dancer
"
External links
Galactic Empire
on
Wikipedia
In other languages
čeština
dansk
Deutsch
Ελληνικά
español
français
한국어
italiano
ქართული
magyar
日本語
polski
português
српски / srpski
suomi
Türkçe
українська
中文