Jedi Order
Organizational information
Title of leader
Grand Master
Governing body
Jedi High Council
Positions
Master of the Order
Jedi Master
Jedi Knight
Padawan
Jedi Initiate
Sub-groups
Acquisition Division
Agricultural Corps
Anchorite sect
Army of Light
Council of First Knowledge
Council of Reassignment
Council of Reconciliation
Exploration Corps
Jedi assault team
Jedi Initiate Clan
Jedi investigators
Jedi seeker
Jedi high command
Jedi Temple Guard
Medical Corps
Technical division
Sects
Ordu Aspectu
(unorthodox sect)
Sith
(breakaway sect)
Headquarters
First Jedi Temple
,
Ahch-To
(
25,025 BBY
)
Jedi Grand Temple
,
Coruscant
(
5000 BBY
,
1032 BBY
–
19 BBY
)
Jedi Temple of Luke Skywalker
,
Ossus
(
9 ABY
–
28 ABY
)
Affiliated organizations
Galactic Republic
Republic Military
Galactic Senate
Judicial Department
Church of the Force
Hidden Path
Alliance to Restore the Republic
New Republic
Resistance
Beliefs
Holy text(s)
Jedi Code
Sacred Jedi texts
Deities
The Force
Light side of the Force
Chosen One
Locations & temples
Brighthome
Crucible
Jedi temples
Jedi outposts
Relics & artifacts
Darksaber
Jedi holocrons
Kyber memory crystal
Jedi Crusader pendant
Jedi star compass
Ceremonies
The Gathering
Initiate Trials
Jedi funeral
Jedi Trials
Knighting ceremony
Holidays
Season of Light
Historical information
Date founded
25,025 BBY
Location of origin
Ahch-To
Ossus
(new generation)
Founder
Prime Jedi
Luke Skywalker
(new generation)
Rey Skywalker
Date of collapse
19 BBY
28 ABY
Date of restoration
15 ABY
By
50 ABY
"
Being a Jedi is not just about
power
, or lightsabers, or even skill with the Force. It is about
connection
. Being part of something bigger. I am stronger as part of the Jedi Order than I could ever be alone.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Anakin Skywalker
The
Jedi Order
, also known as the
Order of the Jedi
, and the
New Jedi Order
under
Jedi Master
Luke Skywalker
, was a noble monastic and nontheistic
religious
order united in their devotion to the
light side of the Force
. They served as mediators, warriors, and with teaching and exploratory efforts. With a
history
dating back
thousands of years
before the
rise
of the
Galactic Empire
, the
Jedi Knights
—noted for their
lightsabers
and
natural
ability
to harness the
powers
of
the Force
—stood as the
guardians of peace and justice
in the
Galactic Republic
. The Order was originally established on
Ahch-To
in the
Unknown Regions
. In later years, the
Jedi Grand Temple
on the
Core World
Coruscant
served as the hub of all
Jedi
activity in
the galaxy
. The
Temple
was also a
training
school for
younglings
and
Padawans
, who learned the ways of the Force under the supervision of Jedi Masters, twelve of whom were elected to serve on the
Jedi High Council
—the Order's highest governing authority. The High
Council's
staff
officers
were the
Grand Master
, who functioned as the leader of the Order and was a title reserved for the wisest Jedi Master, and the
Master of the Order
, who served as the Council's appointed leader. The
Jedi Code
governed the Order's way of life; therefore, every Jedi was duty-bound to observe and uphold the Code or else risk expulsion from the Order.
The emergence of the
Sith
Order was the result of a
schism
that fractured Jedi unity, dividing the Order between the Jedi who remained faithful to the light and a
group of renegades
that followed a
rogue Jedi
into exile for exploring the
dark side of the Force
. Thenceforth, the Jedi and Sith
warred
with each other for
centuries
. Although the
last conflict
concluded with the
fall of the Old Republic
, the ancient Sith all but perished as well, allowing a new
Galactic
Republic to rise under the protection of the Jedi Order. Unknown to the Jedi, however, the Sith endured in
secret
for a millennium beginning with
Darth Bane
, the sole-surviving
Dark Lord of the Sith
who reformed the
Sith way
by creating the
Rule of Two
—a rule limiting the Sith Order's ranks to two members: a
Sith Master
to embody the power of the dark side, and a
Sith apprentice
to covet that power. While the Jedi and Republic moved on, their ancient wars with the Sith fading from memory, Bane's legacy spawned a lineage of
Sith Lords
that culminated in the rise of
Darth Sidious
approximately
three decades
before the
Battle of Yavin
.
During the
final decades
of the Republic, the Jedi Order vowed allegiance to the
Galactic Senate
as the galaxy was beset by
political
instability and social unrest which, in turn, created a
secessionist crisis
that ultimately resulted in the formation of the
Confederacy of Independent Systems
. Lacking the sufficient manpower needed to protect the galaxy, the Jedi became
commanders
and
generals
in the newly-formed
Grand Army of the Republic
. For roughly three years they commanded
armies
of
clone troopers
in a conflict known as the
Clone Wars
, engaging the Confederacy's
battle droid
forces
led by
Count
Dooku
—a former Jedi Master who became a Sith
Lord
—and the
cybernetic
warlord
General
Grievous
. Though the Jedi fought to preserve the Republic, the government they served was secretly taken over by Sidious who, as
Senator
Sheev Palpatine of
Naboo
, rose to power in the Senate and became the last
Supreme Chancellor
of the Republic. The Jedi were unknowingly being deceived by the Sith.
The Chancellor's deceptions and machinations culminated in the execution of
Order 66
, a
secret protocol
that
forcibly turned
the Jedi's
clone
soldiers
against them, leading to an all but total
extermination
of the Jedi Order. With most of the Jedi eliminated, Sidious
supplanted
a thousand years of
democracy
with a
new government
known as the Galactic Empire. In addition, Sidious succeeded in convincing
Anakin Skywalker
—the prophesied
Chosen One
who was destined to bring balance to the Force by destroying the Sith—to betray the Jedi and join the dark side, with Sidious renaming him Darth Vader. As a Sith Lord, the former Jedi Knight served the self-proclaimed
Galactic Emperor
by hunting down the few surviving Jedi, who had gone into hiding across the galaxy. In spite of the Sith's efforts, however, the Jedi continued to endure. Within a generation of the Empire's rise to power,
Obi-Wan Kenobi
and
Yoda
—both of whom survived the initial purge of the Order—trained Vader's son, Luke Skywalker, in the Jedi arts. Luke would later redeem his father, causing the redeemed Anakin Skywalker to return to the light and fulfill his destiny as the Chosen One,
destroying
both himself and his Master during the
Battle of Endor
.
The Empire
dissolved
into various remnants as a result of their
defeat
in the
Galactic Civil War
, allowing the
Alliance to Restore the Republic
to rise as the
New Republic
. Under the
new era
, Luke Skywalker endeavored to rebuild the Order by training a new generation of Jedi. Among Skywalker's students was his nephew,
Ben Solo
, the son of his
twin
sister,
Princess
Leia Organa
, and the famed
smuggler
Han Solo
. Ben, however, was seduced by the dark side of the Force at the coaxing of
Snoke
, an enigmatic figure who spearheaded the Imperial-inspired
First Order
. Luke confronted and frightened Ben, who fought back and fled. As a result, Ben adopted the name and persona of Kylo Ren, a First Order
warlord
and
master
of the
Knights of Ren
.
The new generation was betrayed and
destroyed
by Ren, who left the
Jedi training temple
burning
by the
time
Skywalker recovered from the attack. Feeling responsible for Ben's fall and the massacre of his apprentices, he went into exile and disappeared from the galaxy, leaving only traces of his location on a
star
map
. The First Order and the
Resistance
both sought to acquire the map, but ultimately it was the latter that succeeded due to the actions of the
Jakku
scavenger
Rey
. She followed the map to the
planet
Ahch-To
, where the last Jedi had taken
refuge
in the
first Jedi Temple
.
Skywalker, stricken by grief and believing his return would only cause more problems, was reluctant to train Rey or another generation of Jedi. However, the last Jedi eventually returned to the fight, buying time for the Resistance to escape the
siege of Crait
led by Kylo Ren, who became the new
Supreme Leader
after
killing his master
, Snoke. Skywalker became
one with the Force
after exerting a great amount of energy to
project
himself across the galaxy to face his fallen nephew, but not before acknowledging that he would not be the last Jedi. His heroic tale spread across the galaxy, inspiring others and giving hope in a
time of rising darkness
.
Having returned from death, Darth Sidious urged Kylo Ren to end the Jedi Order by killing Rey, who was his
granddaughter
. After Ren renounced the dark side, Sidious
attempted to turn
Rey until he discovered her
bond
with Ben Solo. Realizing they were a
dyad in the Force
, Sidious nearly drained them of their life force to regain his full power. Though weakened by Sidious’ attack, Rey was strengthened by the spirits of past Jedi, allowing the apprentice to stand against the Dark Lord of the Sith. She destroyed her grandfather using his own
Force lightning
against him, preventing the rebirth of the Sith Order, but the effort left her dead. Solo
resurrected
her at the cost of his life, becoming one with the Force as the last Skywalker. The Skywalkers were gone, but their legacy endured through Rey, who took the Skywalker name to honor her mentors and restore the Jedi Order.
Description
Overview
"
The Order tends to be what it needs to be for any particular time. Sometimes, we're warriors, fighting the forces of evil. Sometimes, we govern. Sometimes, we do the opposite—drawing inward, studying the Force and its mysteries. Sometimes, we explore. Sometimes, we do all of those things. And sometimes… We are carved down to almost nothing. Those who are left must bear the responsibility of being one last bit of light in a galaxy filled with endless dark.
"
―Elzar Mann, to Luke Skywalker
For a thousand generations, the Jedi Order protected the Galactic Republic as guardians of peace and justice.
The
Jedi Knights
were a noble order of
Force-sensitive
protectors—united by their ability to use
the Force
—who upheld peace and justice in the
Galactic Republic
for over a thousand generations,
carrying out what they sensed to be the will of the Force as its instruments.
As
keepers of the peace
, the
Jedi
Order
—also referred to as the Order of the Jedi
—undertook
diplomatic
missions on behalf of the
Galactic Senate
, and pursued
interplanetary
criminals across
the galaxy
.
Whereas the
Sith
—the
historic
enemies of the Jedi Order—harnessed the
dark side of the Force
for power,
the Jedi followed the ways of the
light side of the Force
.
The
Jedi Code
,
along with a collection of
other foundational texts
,
guided the Jedi way of life, governing the behavior of individual Jedi to the philosophy and
training
regimen of the Order as a whole.
Though the Jedi worshipped no specific
deity
, the
Chosen One
played an important role in Jedi prophecy and mythology.
According to
Padawan
Matthea Cathley
, the Jedi worked better as a group instead of on their own;
indeed, Jedi Knight
Obi-Wan Kenobi
once reflected that, as part of the Order, he was stronger than if he was on his own.
The virtues of the Order included compassion, generosity, peaceful resolution,
and spreading justice.
As spelled out directly in one version of the Jedi Code, a Jedi was not supposed to act in pursuit of personal power or wealth, instead acting only with the goals of finding knowledge and enlightenment.
Further Jedi goals included finding balance
and protecting others in a just fashion
as part of a selfless quest to aid their fellow beings.
Nonetheless, Jedi needed to understand they were, like all people, imperfect and needed to always learn to be better.
Like anyone, a Jedi could also be scared, but a Jedi was supposed to not run from their fears
or let those fears consume them,
instead facing those fears directly and remaining confident in the knowledge the Force was with them.
In short, their duties as servants of light and the Republic could be summed up as teachers, explorers, diplomats, and warriors.
The Jedi were instructed in the ways of the Order and the Force; as their knowledge grew, each member progressed through several different ranks. With the exception of
Anakin Skywalker
, prospective Jedi were identified a short
time
after
birth
by the quantity of
midi-chlorians
in their
blood
, a factor which indicated the level of a subject's Force-sensitivity.
Many of these children were listed within Jedi
holocrons
before being identified by the Order. Training began at the level of the
Jedi Initiate
; at some point in their training,
younglings
were expected to find their own
Kyber crystal
—the heart of the
lightsaber
,
a distinctive and elegant weapon of the Jedi
—in order to pass an ancient rite of passage known as
The Gathering
.
Padawans were assigned to fully-trained Jedi, such as Knights or Masters, in order to complete their training in the Jedi arts.
Younglings who succeeded in their trials graduated to the level of Padawan, the apprentice of a more experienced member of the Order. In accordance with the Jedi Code, a Master could instruct only one student in the ways of the Force at any given time. The
Padawan braid
, a symbol that represented a Jedi apprentice's status in the Order, was worn in the
hair
or head,
depending on the Padawan's
species
.
The braid was removed when a Padawan ascended to the rank of Jedi Knight or in the case of
banishment
from the Order's ranks.
The
Jedi Trials
were a series of tests that ultimately determined whether a Padawan was worthy of the rank of Jedi Knight.
After becoming a full-fledged member of the Order, a Jedi could choose to adopt a Padawan of their own as part of the Order's tradition in training the next generation of Jedi.
Teaching the ways of the Force to the next generation of Jedi was considered one of the greatest honors in the Order, its existence and traditions perpetuated through "a cycle of training and education."
The
Eye of the Nihil
,
Marchion Ro
, believed that being structured into an order gave Jedi an advantage; in addition to tapping into the Force, any Jedi could tap into their Order to find confidence and structure. Being part of a united group made it so individual Jedi were willing to make large–scale decisions, which they believed would spread their light throughout the galaxy. In effect, a Jedi was not merely strong and bold because they could use the Force. Instead, being part of the overall Jedi Order helped them grow to embody those traits.
Comprised of twelve Jedi Masters, the Jedi High Council was the governing body of the Jedi Order.
The most powerful and legendary Jedi held the rank of Jedi Master
once they had proven themself worthy of the independence
and station granted by the title. Again with the exception of Skywalker, the
Jedi High Council
—the highest governing body of the Order
—consisted of Masters throughout the history of the Order.
Among the High Council, the title of
Grand Master
was conferred on the oldest and wisest member of their group,
while the Council's leadership rested with the
Master of the Order
.
The Jedi Order in its capacity as a peacekeeping force of the Republic
vowed allegiance to the Galactic Senate and
democracy
.
As an "extension" of the Republic's
Judiciary branch
,
the Order was under the legal jurisdiction of the Senate,
and as leader of the Senate,
the
Supreme Chancellor
had the privilege to make requests of the Order.
However, this prerogative did not give the chancellor direct authority over the Order, which was legally under senatorial oversight. According to
Sheev Palpatine
, the
Office of the Chancellor
would become a
dictatorship
if the Order was forced to comply with orders from the Republic head of state.
Locations
"
The most famous of the Jedi temples, located on Coruscant, served as the home of the Jedi High Council and the vast library of data known as the Jedi Archives.
"
―Luke Skywalker
The first Jedi Temple was built on a sacred island of Ahch-To.
Jedi temples
served as places of worship, training schools, and repositories of knowledge for the Jedi Order.
The
first Jedi Temple
was built atop a
sacred island
on
Ahch-To
tens of thousands of years before the
First Order-Resistance War
.
The temple rose high above the surrounding sea, and was worn down by erosion and time. Some signs of its past remained, however, such as mosaics and an ancient
meditation
ledge.
One such mosaic depicted the Prime Jedi in a state of meditation; the same mosaic symbolized the nature of the Force as a duality between the dark side and the light.
During the era of the Galactic Republic, the Jedi Order made its home in the Jedi Grand Temple on Coruscant.
The Jedi Order made its home in the
Jedi Grand Temple
on
Coruscant
,
the
capital
world of the Galactic Republic.
Over the millennia, the Temple served as the central hub of all Jedi activities in the galaxy; it was a school, a monastery, and the headquarters of the Jedi High Council.
As a school, the Temple was the largest active Jedi training center in the galaxy
where younglings trained to become Padawans and ultimately full-fledged Jedi Knights. The
Jedi Archives
, the source of all knowledge accumulated by the Order, was located inside of the Temple.
As the symbol of the Order, the Temple signified the Order's status in galactic affairs.
While access to the Temple was not restricted to just the Jedi, all non-Jedi personnel were required to undergo compulsory entry tests before becoming employed at the Temple. Those who worked in the Temple often dedicated their whole life to serving the Order.
Having sustained extensive damage during the fall of the Jedi, the Temple was renovated and renamed as the Imperial Palace,
with only the original structure's corpse and five skyscraping towers remaining intact.
In addition to the Temple on Coruscant, the Order maintained several ancient temples spread across the galaxy.
Jedi understood they were connected to the entire galaxy through their Order, seeing the galaxy itself as their home instead of a singular location as deserving that term.
The Jedi Temple on Ilum was used for a sacred ritual known as The Gathering.
One
ancient temple
was located on
Lothal
, and was only accessible if both the Master and Padawan were present. The Lothal temple was where Padawans were sent to confront their fear without the support of the Masters, some of whom ultimately died while waiting for their students who never returned, leaving the temple's antechambers littered with their skeletal remains.
Other Jedi enclaves included the
Temple of Eedit
on
Devaron
,
the
Temple
of
Vrogas Vas
,
and the
Temple
of
Ilum
where younglings were sent to participate in The Gathering.
The Jedi Order established smaller outposts at various locations around the galaxy, including
one
on
Elphrona
. These outposts dated as far back as the High Republic Era and the great Jedi spread across the galaxy that saw them work alongside various communities. It contained various artifacts that were important to the history of the Jedi.
While Ilum was regarded as the most sacred planet to the Jedi Order,
the
desert
moon
Jedha
—a holy site and home to one of the first civilizations that explored the nature of the Force
—was considered a spiritual home of the Jedi.
Like Ilum,
Jedha contained the kyber
crystals
that the Jedi used to create their lightsaber.
It was also a holy site for pilgrims throughout the galaxy, who sought spiritual guidance
in the
Holy City
of Jedha.
At one time it was an important world to the Jedi.
The Jedi Temple on Ossus served as a training school for the apprentices of Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.
A number of Jedi sites could also be found on the planets
Tython
and
Ossus
, such as the
Jedi Temple of Tython
or the
First Temple
on Ossus.
The Jedi maintained a connection to Tython, and one of their sacred
texts
described "notable beasts of Tython."
Ossus was also the location of the
Great Jedi Library
, which was destroyed before the
Clone Wars
and in complete ruins by the time of its rediscovery by
Luke Skywalker
. Despite this, Skywalker still located an original copy of the
Rammahgon
, one of the sacred Jedi texts, on the planet.
During the
New Republic Era
, the
Jedi Temple of Luke Skywalker
was constructed on
Ossus
with the goal of becoming a "great school" for future generations of students in the restored Jedi Order.
General perception
Different traditions over time
Compassion and non-attachment were regarded as essential to members of the Jedi Order
With the galaxy changing as new threats emerged, the Jedi Order took on many forms and traditions over its life
in its mission to fight those threats.
As such, the particular way members of the Jedi Order interpreted the current form of its ideals impacted the way they interacted with the galactic population.
The High Republic Era was a time of greatly expanded Jedi activity, and the Order had many outposts throughout the galaxy.
The Galactic Republic relied heavily on their role as guardians of peace and justice, to settle disputes through peaceful ways, to protect planetary leaders and senators.
With the Republic's rapid expansion and the Order's role in protecting that effort, the Jedi also established many new temples across the Outer Rim, keeping the buildings in line with the planetary cultures they found themselves in.
With many Jedi living amongst these communities
through such temples
or while out on their mission, the Jedi learned local customs
and truly became part of the cultures
they protected.
By the time of the late Republic Era, the Order found itself shifting its focus more onto the galactic scale of the responsibilities required of the Order. In this era, the Jedi were more likely to focus on and spend their time on the galactic astropolitical scene and the bigger questions: stopping menaces, some before they even developed, and saving whole star systems at a time. Knowing that their decisions affected billions of lives, the Jedi Council regularly sent out Knights to report on the state of the various parts of the galaxy. However, as their duties amounted, several Jedi outposts were shut down to direct resources where the Republic needed the Jedi the most, and their withdrawal caused many people to abandon the settlements grown around the presence of the Order.
While
Jedi Sentinels
still existed and made it their duty to work with the everyday people of the galaxy,
Jedi Knights found it increasingly difficult to find time for personal interaction with the people of the galaxy, with many young Jedi often forgetting that concerns that seemed small on a galactic level were often huge for the individual. That was despite Master Yoda and other Council members' efforts to teach them to pay attention to the present and where they are. In effect,
the Jedi Order grew increasingly isolated from the galaxy at large, much to the concern of Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, due to its shrinking number of outposts.
Focusing on galactic issues instead of remaining on a smaller scale, the Jedi thus were focused more and more on the future of the Republic. Secluded from the galaxy at large due to its headquarters on Coruscant,
the Jedi Order was left adrift, not only because of its isolation but also how it had become heedless of strange changes within the Force.
While the Jedi still cared about the galaxy,
the Jedi, compared to what they were before, stayed locked away
in their shrinking number of temples,
instead of remaining a part of local communities as they had in the High Republic Era.
Jinn and Master Yoda feared that, since many people of the galaxy saw and interacted with Jedi Knights less and less, they might start to believe or could be made to believe that the Order ceased to care about them. What with many of the Order's other outposts being shut down while the Temple on Coruscant remained,
Jinn pondered if the Order's headquarters sitting on Coruscant was a problem, reasoning it made them look like Republic warriors. While Yoda warned him that the Council would not agree with his concerns about Coruscant, Jinn even feared the Jedi themselves could fall into that viewpoint and lose the true meaning of what it meant to be a Jedi.
During the High Republic Era, the Order and the Jedi Council enabled Jedi who were drawn to solitary action to become "
Wayseekers
"—Jedi who operated outside of the dictates of the Council
to instead follow the Force on their own terms.
Such a position was seemingly not permitted in the late Republic Era due to the defiance it showed towards the council.
Wayseekers were still bound to the values of the Order, so their abilities and skills could not be used in the pursuit of selfish concerns.
Although they were not eager to be
soldiers
,
the Jedi many times found that other skills were not enough and so their role was to fight, indeed this was understood in the High Republic as a vital, though unfortunate role of a Jedi. They took military actions against the Sith,
lead soldiers against the Nihil,
and in the last years of the Republic reprised this office, became
generals
of the
Republic Military
and fighting in the Clone Wars.
Even after the fall of the Order, Jedi like Luke Skywalker and Rey fought the darkness as the edge of the powers that opposed tyranny.
Letting go
"
Strong passions are something we try to control within ourselves, as emotions can cloud our judgment, especially in stressful situations. They can blind us to the truth, and to the leading of the Force. That said, it would be foolish to suggest that a Jedi has no desires or interests. In fact, I would go so far as to say that it would be dangerous, leading only to complacency. Yes, I have a passion for learning and teaching. It is part of who I am. But I am also prepared to set such things aside at a moment's notice. My 'passions' must never be greater than my mission.
"
―Master Stellan Gios
To be a Jedi was to let go: friends would live and pass on, but a Jedi could not allow their connection to give way to uncontrolled grief.
Jedi Knights of all eras adhered to the Jedi Code, however, there were debates on how to follow its doctrines,
and many Jedi developed their own personal understanding of them. One major concept was that of avoiding attachments, but different Jedi expressed different understandings of that rule.
Padawan
Kevmo Zink
explained that the overall idea behind avoiding attachments was inspired by the Jedi Order's mission to the Force; if a Jedi was truly expected to work for the good of the entire galaxy, they could not tie themself down with one attachment, such as a romantic relationship with another being.
If a Jedi did form such an attachment, the Order believed that the Jedi would not be as ready to spread the ideals of the light side across the galaxy because of the relationship, which the Order taught would be a distraction. It was hoped a Jedi Knight would only be bound to the Force and the Jedi Temple.
High Republic Era Jedi Master
Stellan Gios
explained that the Jedi tried to control their strong passions because the emotions one felt for those passions could cloud their judgement, particularly during a stressful moment. Still, he said it was wrong to deny that Jedi like himself had their own interests and desires; the task of a Jedi, he reasoned, was to not let those passions take control of their being.
As late Republic Era
Rael Averross
reasoned, the text of the
Jedi Code
forbid strong attachments that divided one's loyalties and compromised their emotions. As such, he further reasoned that a casual physical relationship—which he enjoyed with a woman named
Selbie
—was only breaking the "letter" of the Jedi Code, not its actual binding spirit. While Averross's actions shocked his fellow Jedi Master
Qui-Gon Jinn
, Averross defended himself and pointed out how Jinn had made an actual violation of the Jedi Code in his past via a relationship with an
individual
, much to Jinn's pain. Jinn himself maintained fond memories of that past relationship despite having moved on to continue his life as a Jedi.
During the High Republic Era, according to Master
Kantam Sy
's viewpoint, there were many Jedi who twisted the notion non-attachment; to Sy, those who spoke of suppressing emotions, forsaking love and trying to numb themselves to discomfort were twisting Jedi teachings. Jedi like Sy and Grand Master
Yoda
taught non-attachment or detachment, just like love, was to let go of something or someone when the time called for it, instead of allowing oneself to be ruled by the need to possess.
Indeed, close friendships were respected and valued throughout the Jedi Order,
but a Jedi needed to understand they could lose those they cared for and thus would need to let go,
instead of letting their grief consume them.
That belief tied into the Jedi Order's beliefs on death; according to the Jedi, an individual became one with the Force upon death because they transferred into the
Cosmic Force
, which, in turn, generated the
Living Force
. As High Republic Era Jedi Master
Obratuk Glii
explained, he was still allowed to miss his former apprentices, but he knew they were still with him through the Force, generating a joy within him that his fellows had become part of the Force. Furthermore, he declared it meant he could not be scared of his own mortality.
As selfless defenders of peace and justice,
Jedi were also willing to lay down their own lives in defense of others
and did not fear death. Instead, a Jedi was supposed to always put the needs of other people before their own needs.
While Glii's commentary argued that Jedi could grieve to a certain degree so long as it did not consume them,
Padawan Matthea Cathley, who also lived during the High Republic Era, once thought to herself that Jedi did not grieve, but her thought was based in the understanding of not losing oneself to attachment over a deceased individual. Even then, she noted not grieving was hard in practice. Cathley also once claimed that Jedi did not get scared, but she later accepted that, like everyone, Jedi did indeed have fears and they needed to face them; as she put it, there was no shame in admitting when she was scared, but it was her duty to face whatever spawned that fear.
The Jedi Order taught its members to move beyond what they feared to lose, ensuring a Jedi did not cling onto the present in an ever-changing galaxy.
As such, a Jedi needed to be careful with their relationships
so as to not let attachment, and the naturally ensuing fear of losing those attachments, consume them.
It was not that a Jedi was not allowed to feel romantic love, as it was understood such feelings were natural, but a Jedi were not supposed to enter into a romantic relationship. It was essential for a Jedi Knight to make the right choice for the Order and not neglect their Jedi duties in the favor of their beloved, even if that would mean the end of the relationship.
As Zink explained, a Jedi was able to use the Force to direct themselves through the tides of strong emotions and learn what the underlining motivations of those feelings were. With that, a Jedi would not be ruled by their passions, but instead could make tactical decisions with a better understanding of their own mindset.
For some outsiders, as such, the Jedi teaching on the matter often misinterpreted, believed the Jedi to be distant and seemingly unconcerned about the lives of those they were to protect
and that "love" was forbidden for a Jedi.
The actions of some emotionally distant Jedi Knights did little to help that misconception:
during the days of the High Republic, a Jedi Knight saved the lives of a starship crew, including the young
Axel Greylark
, but needed to drag the badly injured boy away from
his father
, trapped under the rubble, thus leaving him behind. The Jedi told him that what happened was the will of the Force, something that left Greylark baffled. Years later, when he recounted the incident to Jedi Knight
Gella Nattai
and how the Knight later forgot his face, he concluded that one grieving boy in a galaxy full of them was nothing, but Nattai affirmed to Greylark that one grieving boy was everything.
Jedi of the High Republic Era displayed a great deal of emotional openness to those grieving
or upset
—showing it in actions like offering a hug.
During the waning decades of the Republic, compassion was still meant to be central to a Jedi's life,
with the non-attachment rule defined in theory as someone not meant to fearfully grasp on things and beings in a
universe
ruled by change.
However, the actions of a Jedi appearing not to care could damage the entire Order's reputation
or result in that Jedi failing to help someone who needed support. Jedi Knight
Iskat Akaris
found a lack of support amongst the Jedi as she grappled with her insecurities during the late Republic Era.
During the Clone Wars, amid an
incident
on Coruscant in which the Jedi attempted to recapture the
Hutt
crime lord
Ziro Desilijic Tiure
, a Jedi was forced to redirect a transport to ensure it avoided hitting a platform of people, but the redirected ship instead crashed into the
Martez family
apartment. Two children—
Trace
and
Rafa Martez
—became orphans in the incident with the demise of their parents in the crash. The Jedi in question then failed to properly explain herself in a compassionate matter, trying to assure both that she had needed to make a choice but that the Force would still be with them, a phrase that meant nothing to the two girls.
For Luke Skywalker, surrendering to one's attachments was to forsake the ways of the Jedi Order.
Luke Skywalker affirmed the Jedi Order's commitment to non-attachment since the early days of his efforts to rebuild it.
However, he also told his sister,
Leia Organa
, that she could still be
married
to
Han Solo
if she joined the Order.
Due to his unorthodox training in the Jedi arts, Skywalker sought to provide the next generation of Jedi with a more conventional path to knighthood.
As the last Jedi of his era,
Skywalker found comfort through adherence to the Jedi way, having largely isolated himself from his friends while rebuilding the Order.
In addition,
the Armorer
—a
Mandalorian
who was familiar with Jedi history—stated that the Jedi were required to sacrifice personal attachments in order to master the ways of the Force.
While in the process of training
Grogu
, Skywalker informed his apprentice that giving into attachments to those whom he loved was to forsake the way of the Jedi.
Views on the lightsaber
Indara chose to only draw her lightsaber as a last resort.
"
I realized something. Something important. A Jedi isn't his lightsaber. A lightsaber is just a tool. A Jedi is someone who uses the Force to bring light to the galaxy. To protect people and push back darkness. That particular lightsaber… the one I lost… I don't need it. It was my father's… but I'm not sure how I feel about that anymore. I'm going to be a Jedi. Even if I never see that lightsaber again.
"
―Luke Skywalker
During the history of the Jedi Order, the lightsaber considered to be the Jedi's only true ally in battle.
Beyond its existence as a weapon,
however, the lightsaber was a symbol of care to the Jedi; as explained by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, the blade represented the care with which they approached and wielded their gifts, further serving as a message to their opponents and representing something that needed great skill and training to wield. In choosing a rather limited weapon, Kenobi explained, the lightsaber was also the symbol of their role and duty as protectors, not destroyers. Further reasoned by Kenobi to be a tool that showed the Jedi could be more powerful but openly chose not to be, the lightsaber represented a Jedi's duty to stand tall against darkness.
While the phrase "this weapon is your life" was popular during the late Republic Era,
a Jedi—as exemplified by the High Republic Era
and Kenobi's speech
—needed to be more than their lightsaber.
Indeed, after the Order's fall, Luke Skywalker came to realize that a Jedi was not their lightsaber and instead the duty he was tasked with was something beyond a single weapon. Faced with either needing to rescue his friend
Leia Organa
or continue looking for his lightsaber on
Cloud City
, Skywalker came to his decision and left to help his friend.
The High Republic Era saw a greater variance in lightsaber color than just green and blue lightsabers.
The High Republic Era would also see a greater variance in lightsaber color
and hilt design
than the Jedi of the late Republic. During the late Republic era, Jedi largely wielded blue or green lightsabers with simple silver hilts.
A shift in lightsaber design could be seen in the High Republic Era: the
Nihil conflict
saw the Jedi Order implement the
Guardian Protocols
and prepare for greater conflict, during which the High Council knew Jedi could lose their blade and be forced to quickly replace it. Rather than have Jedi spend time building elaborated hilts, the Council reasoned that speed and effectiveness was of the essence and that a ready supply of lightsabers was something the Order needed. As such, the Council ordered Jedi to only construct
battle sabers
, hilts with a simple design
like those seen in the late Republic Era.
Even then, Jedi active in the later High Republic Era still had a wider variance in lightsaber color
than the blue and green-filled Order of the late Republic.
While each individual Jedi built their own lightsaber as a youngling to their own specifications, allowing for a degree of individuality in hilt design even during the late Republic Era,
groupings of Jedi of that time were largely defined by cylindrical silver hilts of an overall similar design, with those hilts mainly producing green or blue blades.
Who gets to join
"
Wait— you mean, I can be a Jedi?
"
"
Study you should, the Farseeker Lyr. No great power had he, yet from his ink sprang some of the Jedi's greatest texts. For though the Jedi and the Force are one, the Force is not what a Jedi makes.
"
"
Then what makes a Jedi?
"
"
That is something only you can answer.
"
―Lohim Nara and Yoda during the High Republic Era
During the High Republic Era, when the young boy
Lohim Nara
spoke to Grand Master Yoda about his life-long desire to join the Order, he confessed that he had faked his Force-sensitivity and midi-chlorian count, but Yoda told the boy of how the Force was not the sole answer to what a Jedi was. Yoda spoke of how the Force existed in all life forms and how, if he wanted to be someone worthy of the name Jedi, he could not dwell on what he did not have. He also told the boy not to worry about being "too old" to become a youngling, stating that he was still learning at over six hundred years old. While Yoda seemed to admit the boy could not be a Jedi Knight due to his age, he noted that other professions helped the Order and offered him a role as a
guardian of the Temple
after Nara realized he had a mentor in
Reina Bilass
.
Yoda served as a Jedi Master for centuries and thus was present to watch as the Jedi Order changed with the galaxy.
However, later in its history, the Order proved reluctant but willing to bend their rules as the death of Jedi Master
Qui-Gon Jinn
and return of Sith convinced the Council to allow the young Anakin Skywalker to be trained, despite he was initially deemed too old.
Decades later, Yoda also chose to take Luke Skywalker as his apprentice after initially pointing out how old he was.
Alternatively, the Order of the High Republic also became a home for the young Force-sensitive
Zeen Mrala
, who did not train as a Jedi but became close to many Padawans and, despite Jedi regulations forbidding its members from engaging in romance, fell in love with Padawan
Lula Talisola
.
Despite not being a Jedi, she was welcomed to train with the Padawans and their masters, with Talisola's master Kantam Sy helping her to control her anger.
Later, in order to find and save Talisola, Mrala realized that she was willing to join the ranks of the Jedi despite her age, although her realization came from how she figured certain Jedi rules would be bent due to the evolving Nihil conflict.
The High Republic Era Order also maintained close ties with other Force orders, working as part of the
Convocation of the Force
on Jedha.
Through its ties to other orders, the Jedi brought rescued children who were "too old" to be trained as Jedi to Jedha, where they were taken in by other faiths.
In the late Republic Era, the Jedi continued to help orphans find new homes, but there were instances where they failed to do so because of local law
or their own non-attachment rule going so far it blurred the line between non-attachment and apathy, such as when a Jedi of the late Republic Era left Trace and Rafa Martez on their own after the deaths of their parents. Beyond those deaths being an indirect result of the Jedi's own actions, the Jedi's apparent lack of concern and the fact they simply left the two girls on their own created a distaste in both girls towards the Jedi Order, on whom they did not want to depend upon.
Leaving the Order
"
The Jedi have been my family since I was a child, the Temple my home. But my future lies here, on Serenno
[…]
I am the heir of Serenno. I will rebuild this planet, make it stronger. Not for the Republic. And not for the Jedi. But for the people. My people. I ask for you, and the Council, to respect my decision in this matter.
"
"
Hm. Saddened by your decision we are, but honor it we will.
"
"
Thank you. I will surrender my lightsaber to Master Kostana.
"
"
No. Necessary that will not be.
"
"
It is the weapon of a Jedi.
"
"
Which is why keep it you must. More than a name, a Jedi is. More than a title. Strong in the Force, you are. Guide you, it will. Guide us all, it must.
"
―Dooku speaks to Yoda about his decision
While Grand Master Yoda once declared in the late Republic Era that a Jedi leaving the Order was a failure on the Order's part to keep that Jedi where they belonged, Jedi were permitted to leave the Jedi Order whenever they so chose without punishment,
with Yoda accepting that fact, even if a Jedi leaving might sadden him. Should they feel it to be their calling, a former Jedi was even permitted to return to the Order. During the High Republic Era, one of Yoda's Padawans, Kantam Sy, walked away from the Jedi for over a year before returning when they met their soon-to-be Padawan
Lula Talisola
, who made Sy believe their place was with the Order. Jedi Master
Cohmac Vitus
was surprised Yoda would allow his Padawan to do a walkaway from the Order, but Sy believed Yoda knew it was necessary for them to find their place in the Order, with Sy at the time also thinking Yoda had seen it coming and thus was why he had held off on their Knighting.
Twenty Jedi Masters who departed the Order became known as the "
Lost Twenty
" and were commemorated by busts located in the
Jedi Archives
of the Temple. Yoda believed the Lost needed to be remembered and honored, which enabled the Jedi to learn from the failings that caused them to depart. Still, he advised the Jedi not to live in the past just because prior members had departed. The twentieth of the Lost was
Dooku
,
a former Padawan of Yoda who departed in
42 BBY
over issues with the Jedi and Republic. Despite his departure, Dooku was allowed to visit the Temple on Coruscant,
continued to have access to its Archives,
and was even allowed to retain possession of his lightsaber, with Yoda reasoning being a Jedi was more than a title and thus the weapon would still be of use to him.
Public image
Jedi unite for peace
"
The
Jedi Order
was strong, deeply seated into the galaxy's consciousness. They had a great temple in the heart of
Coruscant
, worked closely with
the Republic
and its chancellor for centuries. People made holodramas about them, wrote stories. The Jedi were…
celebrities
, and rightly so.
"
―The Archivist
The Jedi were committed in their duty as guardians of the Republic, but had no desire to be celebrated as such.
The Jedi Order was regarded as a mysterious organization throughout its history.
The Order was ingrained in the public consciousness of the galaxy as a result of its strong ties to the government of the Galactic Republic,
but was nonetheless inscrutable to the general public. However, those who encountered the Jedi were awed by their Force abilities.
Nevertheless, the Jedi were celebrities of their time, a status reflected by Jedi-themed
holodramas
as well as stories written about the Order.
The Archivist
, a
historian
who studied Jedi lore prior to joining
Crimson Dawn
, believed that to most people the Jedi exemplified the moral virtues that were affiliated with the light side of the Force, making them both loved and hated by the galaxy that they served.
During the High Republic, the Jedi actively worked to be part of local communities
in addition to helping them.
However, the
Path of the Open Hand
cult spread its influence by claiming all who used the Force were violating the energy field from its freedom, claiming that each use of the Force to solve a problem created an equal or worse problem elsewhere.
The people of the planet
E'ronoh
were divided on the Jedi, with some believing they were miracle workers while others looked down on the Order as a group of Republic-backed outsiders. The arrival of the Path galvanized anti-Jedi sentiment on E'ronoh.
The Path would, in time, evolve into the militant
Path of the Closed Fist
that hoped to war with the Jedi.
Open Hand-adherent Path members
and the Path's descendant movement,
the
Elders of the Path
,
maintained their
anti-Jedi sentiment
.
Open Hand
Elder
Yulon Onning
abandoned the Closed Fist yet still hoped to see it triumph over the Jedi, whom he continued to see as "filth" and a group whose defeat would be a victory for the Open Hand.
In the end, the Closed Fist would be succeeded by the
Nihil
,
a group of marauders who waged war with the Jedi and Republic in their name of securing what they saw as their true freedom.
In most situations, the Jedi were meant to lead rebuilding efforts after a battle had brought damage. However, the Holy Moon of Jedha presented an interesting case after the
Battle of Jedha
:
in the past, the Jedi had once governed—and, in the opinion of some, "ruled over"—Jedha City
until the other religions who considered Jedha holy objected, believing that the Jedi were trying to depict themselves as the one true faith. The Jedi agreed to step down from their control,
but lingering
anti-Jedi sentiment
remained,
with one Jedha citizen once accusing the Jedi of always trying to control their lives.
That lingering anti-Jedi sentiment was used by the Path of the Open Hand to help bring the Battle of Jedha into being
in
382 BBY
.
After the battle, it was decided the
Guardians of the Whills
would serve as a steadying hand in the rebuilding effort instead of the Jedi because of still-lingering mistrust towards the Order on the part of Jedha citizens.
Public discontent with the Galactic Senate led to manifestations of anti-Jedi sentiment during the late Republic Era.
As an extension of the Galactic Republic's
Judicial Department
, the Jedi Order was subject to the authority of the Senate,
and therefore, considered an instrument of the government's will. This belief was held both within the Senate
and without;
Senator
Dagonet
said that the Jedi served the Senate,
and
Semage
of
Raxus Secundus
accused them of being "lapdogs" for the Republic government. Hostility toward the Jedi extended to violent acts against members of the Order, such as Jedi Master
Katri
who was
killed
by Semage and his guards.
Jedi Master Dooku became disenchanted with both the Senate and the Order, claiming that the Jedi served a "corrupt Senate" that had "failed the Republic"
in contrast to his former belief that the Jedi were servants of the Republic and its people.
Clone War anti-Jedi views
Harmful propaganda
"
Emperor
Palpatine
rose to power because he made people afraid. He made people fear the
Jedi
. He called them
traitors
. He said they used their mystical powers to subvert democracy and peace, to cause war. It worked, possibly because as much as people
loved
the Jedi, they also
hated
them, on some level. It is hard to look at people who have become their
best selves
. It reminds you that
you have not
.
"
―The Archivist
During the Clone Wars, the
Commission for the Protection of the Republic
(COMPOR) initially attempted to use the Order as an
instrument
for wartime
propaganda
. This idea was discouraged by Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, who noted the Jedi's discomfort with their new role as generals in the Republic Military. COMPOR therefore focused its propaganda on the
clone troopers
who served under the Jedi's command, and as such the Jedi's contributions to the Republic war effort went largely unnoticed.
Anti-Jedi sentiment grew as a result of the Order's involvement in the Clone Wars.
The Jedi Order was vilified during the Clone Wars by elements within both the Republic and the Confederacy. The Separatists
—while, in total truth, being proponents of slavery at the secret direction of
Count
Dooku
—accused the Jedi of hypocrisy, claiming that the Order supported the Republic's inhumane practice—as portrayed through Separatist propaganda—of using clones as a "
slave
army
." The Separatists' portrayal of the Jedi largely succeeded in maligning their character in the eyes of the public, as few in the Confederacy knew that the Order was not given a choice in the matter. It was the Order's preference to not be used as icons of heroism, having long resisted attempts at romanticizing the Jedi, especially for the purpose of wartime propaganda. The Jedi, therefore, were mostly absent from galactic culture, which allowed anti-Jedi sentiment to grow from preconceptions instead of a genuine rebuttal of the Order's practices. The Separatists were convinced that the Order neglected their worlds, forcing them to secede from the Republic. Separatist civilians conflated the Order with the
Core Worlds
' reputation for cultural elitism, and some even viewed the Jedi as "
evil
" and a fanatical sect of "warmongers." The historian
Janyor
theorized that such misconceptions of the Jedi could have been averted if the Order had been more engaged with the populace.
Anti-Jedi sentiment was openly espoused by the Republic's successor, the
Galactic Empire
.
The self-proclaimed
Galactic Emperor
Sheev Palpatine deceitfully accused the entire Order of
treason
, maligning the Order's reputation
after several members of the High Council, having discovered his true identity as the Sith Lord, Darth Sidious, attempted to
arrest the chancellor
.
Palpatine squarely blamed the Jedi for recent troubles
and deceitfully accused them of using their "mystical powers" to cause the Clone War
in order to secure power.
Grand Vizier
Mas Amedda
publicly
denounced
the Order as a symbol of fear and referred to the Order's downfall as the beginning of a new "age of freedom."
With the exception of individuals like Lyra Erso, the Order was effectively forgotten by the galaxy during the early days of the
Imperial Era
as the Empire quickly moved to cover up its existence.
Despite the
Alliance to Restore the Republic
largely having pro-Jedi views,
its individual members were not immune to the era's bias, with soldier
Reyé Hollis
believing stories he heard of the Jedi being ineffective fools who stole glory for themselves.
Collapse in public opinion
"
Aren't you a bit busy with your war to be bothering with the likes of us?
"
―
Tiggs Leo
In general, Republic citizens were unaware of the Order's motives for fighting in the Clone Wars. To some individuals,
such as the Mandalorian
Duchess
Satine Kryze
or the
Coruscanti
civilian
Letta Turmond
, the Jedi had forsaken their principles as peacekeepers by becoming military leaders and battlefield warriors.
Tee Watt Kaa
, the head of a
Lurmen village
on
Maridun
, rejected the argument that the Jedi were peacekeepers, a function that he believed was incompatible with the Order's participation in the Clone Wars.
A committed, to the death, pacifist, Kaa was unwilling to compromise his views, refusing to permit the other
Lurmens
to defend their village against the
Confederacy military
. They ultimately defied Kaa's authority upon witnessing the Jedi's efforts to
save the Lurmens
from
extermination
by General
Lok Durd
.
When the Jedi became military generals during the last years of the Republic, many took them as warmongers who had abandoned their peacekeeping mission.
At the height of the Clone Wars, people throughout the galaxy regarded the Jedi as warmongers, particularly in territories controlled by the
Confederacy of Independent Systems
. However, most beings did not know that the Order went to war to honor its commitment to protect the Senate, the Republic,
and the galaxy at large.
Nevertheless, the Clone Wars caused civilians
like Turmond
and the Martez sisters to lose faith in the Order.
Rafa Martez and her sister, Trace Martez, faulted the Order for the deaths of their parents when a Jedi had redirected a transport from a platform of people, only for it to hit their apartment. With the Jedi seemingly uncompassionate towards their plight, the sisters found themselves left alone and with anger at the Jedi.
While Separatists were opposed to the Jedi due to their allegiance with the Republic, with many of
Lux Bonteri
's friends blaming the Jedi for the bloodshed of the Clone Wars,
the citizens of the Republic would turn on the Jedi due to losing faith in their Order. To the public, the Jedi looked like a force who seemed more interested in playing politics
or waging war
than helping those in danger
or need.
Indeed, in focusing on the Clone Wars, the Jedi had less time to aid the people of the Republic they were meant to protect.
Trace Martez thought of the Jedi as a police force who started the war and had forgotten about the less well off citizens of Coruscant.
While a concern about the political ramifications of their actions could be seen in the late High Republic Era,
former Jedi Ahsoka Tano believed that the Jedi of the Clone Wars era had overwhelmingly tied themselves to the Republic's political state, with Tano herself only regaining her faith in the Jedi when she was reminded of how important the Order could be when it helped those in need. Even then, she made sure to criticize what she regarded as political chess playing on the Order's part when again confronted by it.
Late Republic pro-Jedi views
"
But at what cost? It's like you once said. Many lives get caught between the Republic and the Separatists.
"
"
I did say that once, but after watching the heroics and selflessness of the Jedi, I do believe the Republic is the right side to be on.
"
―Ahsoka Tano and Lux Bonteri
Lyra Erso was a spiritual woman who supported the Jedi Order out of reverence of the Force.
Prior to the Clone Wars, the people of the Galactic Republic kept faith with the Jedi Order
that had acquitted itself through a thousand years of loyal service.
Lyra Erso
, the
wife
of
Doctor
Galen Walton Erso
, supported the Order's views on charity, compassion, and peace. Erso's support for the Order was rooted in her faith in the Force, which evolved from her lifelong love of nature, and her belief in the concepts of good and evil. The Force, as Erso viewed it, was the epitome of perfection and good. During the Clone Wars, Erso believed that the Order was the Republic's best defense against the "powers of evil." Erso also admired the Jedi Temple on Coruscant for its elegance and location on a Force nexus. She often exercised on the Temple grounds prior to the Clone Wars; after the conflict began, however, Erso noticed a changed atmosphere at the now heavily patrolled
temple district
, which made the area virtually inaccessible to the public with the exception of individuals who carried high security clearance.
Erso's
pregnancy
was the closest she felt to experiencing the Force in the way that she imagined the Jedi's connection to it—an incomprehensible and "profound connection with life." She recognized the Force as the source of the Jedi's power, granting them abilities that far exceeded Erso's strengths and intuition. However, she comforted herself with the belief that while she could not use the Force as the Jedi could, she was able to sense it nonetheless. In the aftermath of the
Order 66
, Erso rejected the Galactic Empire's explanation for the
Great Jedi Purge
, refusing to believe that the Jedi betrayed the Republic. Whereas the public generally accepted the deaths of thousands of Jedi, largely out of relief over the end of the Clone Wars, Erso was heartbroken by the Order's destruction and cried for
hours
as a result, an experience she likened to the loss of a family member. Despite the eradication of the Order, Erso continued to believe in the Jedi whose principles influenced her sense of morality.
Though a former Separatist, Lux Bonteri grew to see the Jedi as heroes for their role in the liberation of Onderon.
In addition to Erso,
the Jedi's deeds won the respect and admiration of individuals who worked closely with the Order, such as
Cham Syndulla
and
Lux Bonteri
.
During the
Battle of Ryloth
of the Clone War, Syndulla was initially hesitant to accept the Order's offer of an alliance between the
Grand Army of the Republic
and the
Twi'lek Resistance
, knowing that the Republic would occupy
Ryloth
in the battle's aftermath.
Ultimately, though, Syndulla developed a newfound respect of the Jedi for their role in the liberation of his homeworld, particularly
Jedi General
Mace Windu
, whose memory the
Twi'leks
honored in songs dedicated to the liberation of their
homeworld
.
Bonteri worked with the Order during the
Onderonian Civil War
,
having joined the
Onderon rebels
after his
mother
,
Separatist Senator
Mina Bonteri
, was
assassinated
at the behest of Count Dooku.
By training and fighting alongside the Onderon rebels, the Jedi changed Bonteri's views on the Republic and the Order. Inspired by the selflessness and heroism of the Order, Bonteri vowed to restore the union between
Onderon
and the Republic.
History
Ancient times
"
For over a thousand generations the Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times. Before the Empire.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi
The Jedi Order began with the Prime Jedi a thousand generations before the Battle of Yavin.
The precursors of the Jedi were the
Dai Bendu
,
but the Jedi Order itself was founded in the distant past on planet Ahch-To by the Prime Jedi
in
25,025 BBY
.
According to the legend,
Force-imbued swords
were used prior to invention of the lightsaber by the earlier Force adepts and the Jedi Order.
At the dawn of their order, the Jedi came into possession of Ilum, an ancient planet encased in
ice
and littered with kyber crystals, the heart of the Jedi lightsaber. Considered the Jedi Order's most sacred world, its ancient Temple would eventually host the Gathering, a tradition that would continue up until the fall of the Order.
As the Jedi were spread throughout the galaxy, they acquired a vessel called the
Crucible
that would ferry students to Ilum so that they could perform the Gathering. It would become the base of the
architect droid
,
Professor
Huyang
, for over a thousand
years
as he instructed on lightsaber designs and kept records of every single Jedi weapon created.
During this early period, the Order also established itself on Ossus, Jedha,
Xenxiar
, and other worlds.
Later, some Jedi
scholars
argued that a number of locations could be considered the birthplace of the Order. The scholars argued that Coruscant, Jedha, and Ossus as well as worlds shrouded in myth, such as Tython and Ahch-To could all be considered candidate worlds for the Order's birth and the location of the first Jedi temple.
The Jedi religion, as it was called by Luke Skywalker,
was based around eight "sacred texts" that "describe tenets, history, and specific guidance to those studying the path of the Jedi." These texts included the
Rammahgon
and the
Aionomica
—separated into two volumes,
Aionomicum I
and
Aionomicum II
. These books included a number of aspects of the Jedi religion that appeared to have little influence on later Jedi, such as references to "gods" and the
World Between Worlds
. They also included more mundane information, such as lightsaber designs. The theology of the Jedi religion changed over time; many Jedi, such as Master
Odan-Urr
, annotated even the sacred texts. Much was added to the Jedi canon over time, giving rise to the belief that the
Aionomicum II
doubled in size during its compilation.
The fortunes of the Jedi waxed and waned over the centuries; multiple times throughout its long history, the Order had been reduced to a mere handful of adherents.
At some point prior to around
20,000 BBY
,
a Jedi sect known as the
Ordu Aspectu
broke off from the Jedi Order. Led by the enigmatic
Rur
and his second in command,
Amon
, they sought to achieve the secrets to immortality. Eventually, a
conflict
broke out between them and the orthodox Jedi. The conflict ended with the signing of a
peace treaty
. The treaty allowed the Ordu Aspectu to continue their research but under Jedi scrutiny. During his experimentation, Rur attempted to copy his intellect into his
citadel's
computer core, only to accidentally transfer his very sentience as well. When the Jedi sought to investigate the computer closer
around 20,000 BBY,
the computer activated the citadel's security droids,
killing all members
of the Ordu Aspectu and Jedi alike; but not before it was deactivated by Rur and Amon before they died themselves, thus ending the Ordu Aspectu.
The Hundred-Year Darkness saw a schism within the Jedi Order, with the followers of the dark side becoming known as the Sith.
The Sith and the Jedi were once considered "brothers" in the Force prior to the
Hundred-Year Darkness
, from which the Sith Order was born.
A
rogue Jedi
had come to believe that the true power of the Force lay not in contemplation and passivity,
and instead sought abandon and strength through the dark side of the Force.
The Jedi High Council at the time balked at this new direction, and the fallen Jedi was cast out of the Order's ranks. In spite of his banishment, the outcast gained followers to his new order. The power-hungry
Sith sought to control the galaxy and opposed the Jedi, against whom they waged a series of wars which brought destruction to many worlds, including the Sith homeworld of
Moraband
, which the Sith were eventually forced to abandon.
On another occasion, the Jedi Order and the Sith fought a
battle
on the planet
Takodana
.
These wars also saw the construction of ancient
superweapons
powered by giant kyber crystals which possessed the power to destroy entire planets. These weapons, along with the crystals, were destroyed and a thousand years later believed by many Jedi to be merely legends.
About five-thousand years before the
Battle of Yavin
,
the Order eventually came to be headquartered at Coruscant, wherein they built a Temple that would pose as their main hub for thousands of generations.
Underneath the structure lay buried an ancient
Sith shrine
, the inherent power of which was believed by the contemporary Jedi to have been neutralized and successfully capped. In truth, that power had seeped upward and outward since its entombment, infiltrating the hallways and rooms above, and weakening the Jedi Order for millennia without their knowledge.
The Jedi Knights protected the galaxy as the guardians of peace and justice since the time of the Old Republic.
It was during this time that the Jedi Order came into the service of what would be later called the Old Republic. Promising to uphold its ideals, the Jedi fought to maintain peace and freedom. When the Old Republic outlawed slavery, the Jedi set about to free those held, notably under the
Zygerrian Slave Empire
. The Jedi declared war on
Zygerrians
, whose economic success had resulted from enslaving beings from all corners of the galaxy before selling them at auctions. The Jedi Order managed to put an end to their practices, destroying their empire and exiling them to their homeworld,
Zygerria
. The Zygerrians developed a fierce hatred for the Jedi as a result.
Conflicts
also arose between the Jedi and the inhabitants of the world of
Mandalore
who had rapidly developed into a warlike culture in which strength was valued above all else. Their beliefs of continual warfare went contrary to the Jedi's mission of protecting the weak, they quickly mobilized to stop the destructive Mandalorians from expanding in the galaxy. The constant warfare was a strain and, as the Old Republic crumbled, the Mandalorian warriors sacked the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, an event during which
Pre Vizsla
's ancestors stole the
Darksaber
.
Though defeated by the Jedi, the Sith would survive for centuries as a result of Darth Bane's reforms.
Prior to
1032 BBY
,
the galaxy entered an era known as the
Dark Age
. During this time the
Jedi-Sith War
occurred. Early on in the war, the Sith
attacked
and captured Coruscant and with it the Jedi Temple. Towards the end of the war the Jedi reclaimed the Republic capital and their temple during the
liberation of Coruscant
.
Even as the Old Republic collapsed, the Jedi emerged victorious from their wars with the Sith.
In their constant thirst for power, the Sith had weakened themselves through infighting,
which allowed the Jedi to defeat the weakened Sith.
Unbeknownst to the Jedi at the time,
Darth Bane
remained as the sole surviving
Dark Lord of the Sith
. As a result of the infighting that weakened the Sith,
Jedi Knights
were able to
defeat
the Sith at
the
Mid Rim
planet
Ruusan
This confrontation nearly destroyed the ancient Sith Order,
and forced the Sith to go into
hiding
.
After this, Bane established the
Rule of Two
, declaring that the Sith thenceforth would consist of a
Sith Master
and a
Sith apprentice
.
Bane's Rule of Two was discovered by the Jedi,
but, as recounted by an imprint of later Jedi
Elzar Mann
, the Jedi Order believed they ended Bane's rule.
His death falsely convinced his enemies that the Sith had truly died out.
Keepers of the peace
Knights of the High Republic
Across the stars
"
I just didn't realize the Jedi ever had an official presence so far from the Core.
"
"
It's probably High Republic Era. It was a time of greatly expanded Jedi activity throughout the galaxy.
"
―Luke Skywalker and Lor San Tekka
The Jedi Order reached its zenith of power in the High Republic Era.
The formation of the modern Galactic Republic heralded a new era of democracy, peace, and prosperity under the Galactic Senate and its elected leader, the Supreme Chancellor.
Due to the Galactic Republic's demilitarization, the Jedi Order fully embraced their responsibilities as peacekeepers and rejected their roles as soldiers. Assisted by the Republic
Judicials
, the Jedi were responsible for maintaining law and order, namely by mediating conflicts to bring about peaceful solutions between various rival factions and planets,
as well as serving as interplanetary law enforcement by pursuing wanted and dangerous criminals,
pirates
, and
smugglers
. While they ultimately collapsed, the Galactic Republic and the Jedi Order were able to preside over a thousand years of peace sustained without major warfare.
One of their philosophical sayings was "
the simplest gesture of kindness can fill a galaxy with hope.
"
In approximately
319 BBY
,
a copy of a third volume of the
Aionomica
was put forth. Though the existence of
Aionomicum III
had been rumored, this volume was later found to have been forged, causing a scandal.
The Republic reached the zenith of its power and influence in a time remembered as the High Republic Era. During that time, the Republic relied heavily on the Jedi Order to render aid and settle disputes through peaceful methods.
The Jedi worked alongside the Republic in its effort to expand into the
Outer Rim Territories
, believing it also presented a chance to meet new groups and let them know they could rely on the Jedi for help. However, an
investigation
into the stolen
Rod of Seasons
brought the Jedi into conflict with the Path of the Open Hand cult, which sought to use members of the
Nameless
species against Force users in the name of "freeing" the Force.
The Jedi Order fought in
the
Republic-Togruta conflict
.
Defeating the Path
"
The Night of Sorrow is over, but the brave warriors who fell will not be forgotten. These Jedi came to answer our call of need without hesitation or doubt, because at the heart of the Jedi is a heart that fights for good. These Jedi fought bravely and selflessly, against the darkness that is ever-present in this galaxy.
[…]
As stars are born and die, so does time move forward. Relentlessly so. And yet we fight. We will never stop fighting for the light and life in this galaxy.
"
―Master Creighton Sun speaks after the Battle of Dalna
Padawan
Sav Malagán
fought alongside
pirate queen
Maz Kanata
's crew during the
Battle of Jedha
,
a conflict instigated by the Path. Several Jedi teams investigating the Path converged on Dalna, where the
Battle of Dalna
exploded into being. The conflict had such a high death count it would devolve
into massacre arguably caused by Republic and Jedi's close connection.
All the same, much of the death was caused by the Path, which reformed into the war-like Path of the Closed Fist. During the battle, they also released Nameless that proved highly effective against the Jedi.
Nonetheless, many
Dalnans
held the Jedi responsible for the massacre they remembered as the "Night of Sorrow."
At the time, however, the defeat of the Path was seen as proof of the benefits of Jedi-Republic partnership; as reasoned by former Supreme Chancellor
Kyong Greylark
, current Chancellor
Orlen Mollo
, and Master Yoda, the Path's defeat was only possible thanks to the work between both organizations, with their alliance a strength they believed the galaxy could call on for centuries to come.
After the battle, Yoda and Jedi Master
Creighton Sun
also agreed to cover up all information on the Nameless, including keep details on the creatures out of the Jedi Archives, until they learned more about the mysterious threat.
However, one Jedi who encountered the effects of the Nameless,
Azlin Rell
, abandoned the Order and attempted to learn more about the creatures. Driven mad from his fear and falling to the dark side, Rell still heard the song
Shrii ka rai ka rai
from his encounter with the Nameless on Dalna
and kept the secrets he learned tucked away, yet still lost due to his insanity, in his mind.
Conflict with the Nihil
Even though some of its members would come to question whether it was right to do so, with Jedi like
Cohmac Vitus
remembering the massacre on Dalna as proof that the Republic and Jedi could not always act as one force,
the Jedi continued to work closely with the Republic, with each organization respecting the strengths of the other. Thus, the Jedi aided the
Republic Defense Coalition
and—through their outposts built to explore and help people in the wild portions of the Outer Rim—became the only group upholding justice in the Outer Rim Territories before the
dedication of the Starlight Beacon
. During the era, the Order's understanding of the Force was expanded thanks to the actions of Jedi Knight
Elzar Mann
, who liked to "experiment" with his Force techniques in ways that sometimes failed. Even though he never attempted such actions when lives were at stake, his experiments often meant he worked alone.
Despite the High Republic's supposed peace, the Jedi were suddenly faced with a crisis during the
Great Hyperspace Disaster
in the
Hetzal system
when the
transport
Legacy Run
was destroyed in hyperspace, making its remains rain upon the system. Jedi Master
Avar Kriss
commanded the rescue operation, yet she learned via her
Force bond
to the other Jedi that the fragments raining upon the Hetzal system contained living beings, forcing them to begin rescue operations as well. Towards the end of the crisis, the Jedi worked together—ultimately being joined in the Force by members of their Order who were even further away—to push a fragment containing liquid
Tibanna
past the system's
R-class
star. Their successful rescue of the system was broadcasted across the Outer Rim and even reached the Republic's inner planets. Unknown to the Jedi, the disaster had been masterminded by Eye of the
Nihil
, Marchion Ro, who wanted revenge on the Jedi due to past events involving their Order, his
family
, and an
artifact
that controlled a being known as the
Great Leveler
,
which was a member of the Nameless species
and thus could overwhelm Jedi and other Force-sensitives.
The Nihil disrupted the peace of the High Republic Era by waging a conflict with the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic.
While Ro was not one to share details on what had exactly happened,
his ancestors,
Yana Ro
and
Marda Ro
, had been part of the Path,
who were remembered as "the faithful" by later Ros. As the Ros later remembered, the Path fought the Jedi because of their differing opinions on "balance" and believed the Jedi were leading the galaxy towards its destruction. However, the Path was beaten back, with their religion mostly falling out of favor as time went by.
Inheriting the family goal of revenge and the title of "Eye" after his father
Asgar
was murdered, Ro plotted to reform the Nihil raiders into a unified force he could use for his ends and to beat back the expanding Republic. Additionally, the remains of the
Legacy Run
continued to rain upon Outer Rim systems as
Emergences
, forcing the Republic to
blockade
hyperspace routes
and making the Jedi Council realize the Jedi would be needed in the Outer Rim more than normal. In time, the Order began to battle the Nihil, only for Ro to cement his control over the raiders after the
Battle of Kur
.
The Republic underestimated the Nihil until the massive
attack on Valo
, where the raiders cut down Jedi and civilian alike amid the
Valo Republic Fair
, which was supposed to be Chancellor Soh's show of unity for the Republic. When the Jedi launched a counterattack through the
Battle of Grizal
, Ro unleashed the Great Leveler, which petrified Jedi Master
Loden Greatstorm
,
leaving the Jedi to realize their enemy had a weapon they did not yet understand.
The Republic and Jedi Order grew closer during the Nihil conflict, with Soh and her aides even continually trying to become part of the Jedi High Council's meetings. As debate on how involved with the Republic they needed to become spread across the Order, many Jedi expressed worry that the Order's focus was at risk of moving to politics and war. Vitus was one such Jedi who questioned how much the Order actually owed the Republic, even though he agreed the Nihil were a serious threat, while his Padawan
Reath Silas
saw both sides to the debate.
Starlight Beacon was destroyed during the conflict between the Jedi Order and the Nihil.
As the conflict and bloodshed carried on across the Galactic Frontier, more and more Jedi fell in battle against the Nihil, who the Jedi came to see were ruthless enemies who lacked any form of honor. Many Jedi had trouble adapting to the newly war-torn Outer Rim they needed to serve in. With it even coming to seem like acting only as peacekeepers was a recipe for defeat, Vitus came to believed the galaxy had grown to become a different place than the type the Jedi Order was made for and refused to finch in battle.
After Ro unleashed more Nameless during the
destruction of Starlight Beacon
, the Jedi Order's reputation took a hit when it ordered a mass recall of its members back to Coruscant; while Grand Master
Pra-Tre Veter
argued the Jedi needed to retreat until they could learn how to fight the Nameless, some Republic officials took it as the Jedi running away in fear.
Beginning of the end
"
Do you think the Jedi will truly keep peace if they continue to take everything the Senate says as law?"
"Luckily, we are guided by our Council and not by politics nor ego.
"
―
Dooku
and
Mace Windu
Premonitions of a galactic conflict caused Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas to commission the creation of a clone army.
Prior to the
Invasion of Naboo
in
32 BBY
, Jedi Master
Sifo-Dyas
served on the Jedi High Council until he was removed from its ranks for advocating the mobilization of a Republic Military to defend the galaxy, as this eas deemed as extreme.
Through the Force, Sifo-Dyas predicted a galactic conflict but the High Council at the time considered his views radical.
Certain in the accuracy of his
Force visions
, Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back and secretly commissioned the inhabitants of
Kamino
to
grow
an army of clone soldiers
—
genetically engineered
for growth acceleration and increased docility
—for the Republic. Unbeknownst to Sifo-Dyas, however, his plan factored into the designs of the Sith.
For a
millennium
, generations of
Sith Lords
plotted revenge against the Jedi Order after the death of
Darth
Bane. Darth Sidious, who had become a Sith Master after betraying and murdering his master
Darth Plagueis
, was the culmination of the
Grand Plan
that would see the Sith returned to a position of dominance over the galaxy.
After serving as an unwitting pawn for the Sith, Sifo-Dyas was betrayed by his childhood friend,
the Jedi Master
Count
Dooku, who had him
assassinated
by the
Pyke Syndicate
at the behest of Sidious.
Disillusioned with the Jedi Order, yet also ambitious for power, Dooku rejected the light side and became an agent of Sidious, adopting the moniker of Darth Tyranus.
Following the Battle of Naboo, he replaced
Darth Maul
(who was presumed dead) as the Sith apprentice of Darth Sidious.
From the shadows, the Sith controlled the creation of the clone army.
The Sith guided the creation of the clone
troopers
after Sifo-Dyas' death, covertly taking control of the army
and its
Kaminoan
developers. Tyranus maintained secret contact with two officials of the
Kaminoan government
,
Prime Minister
Lama Su
and the
Chief Medical Scientist
Doctor
Nala Se
, who were supplied with
behavioral modification biochips
to ensure the clones' compliance with their
Sith programming.
The chips were implanted in the
brain
of every clone trooper during the early stage of their development;
Sifo-Dyas, who originally thought of the chip, intended for it to be a safeguard against rogue Jedi, but Tyranus and Sidious reprogrammed the chip. Tyranus deceived the Kaminoans into believing Sifo-Dyas' intention.
However, the biochip's true purpose was to guarantee that the clones would carry out Order 66,
a
secret protocol
that was integral to the destruction of the Jedi Order.
Invasion of Naboo
"
At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will have revenge.
"
―Darth Maul, to Darth Sidious
Anakin Skywalker was the Chosen One discovered by the Jedi in the late Republic Era.
In
32 BBY
,
Supreme Chancellor
Finis Valorum
requested the Jedi Order's assistance in negotiating a dispute that resulted in the
Trade Federation
's
blockade
of the planet
Naboo
. The High Council dispatched Jedi Master
Qui-Gon Jinn
and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, to negotiate with the Trade Federation. However, Darth Sidious, whose public persona was
Senator
Sheev Palpatine of Naboo, insisted that the Trade Federation, which was under his sway, initiated an invasion of Naboo and overwhelmed the
Royal Naboo Security Forces
. Circumventing a trap by the Federation, Jinn and Kenobi were able to escape to Naboo and arrive in
Theed
in time to rescue the
Naboo
Queen
,
Padmé Amidala
, who was being held captive by Federation forces. Together with the Queen's
Handmaidens
and her close
security detail
, the Jedi fled the planet but their
ship
was damaged in the escape, causing them to land on the desert planet of
Tatooine
.
After a thousand years in hiding, the Sith revealed themselves to the Jedi during the Invasion of Naboo.
While stranded on Tatooine, the two Jedi discovered a young slave named
Anakin Skywalker
. Jinn believed Anakin to be the Chosen One, the one that would bring balance to the Force. By betting on the boy winning the
Boonta Eve Classic
, Jinn was able to secure both Skywalker's freedom and the needed parts to repair the
Queen's ship
to reach Coruscant. It was after this that Jinn was
attacked
by Darth Maul, apprentice to Darth Sidious, who had dispatched Maul to kill the Jedi. As the Jedi had believed the Sith to be extinct, Jinn was at first unsure of who Maul was except that he had been trained in lightsaber combat. Arriving at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, the Council refused to induct Skywalker into the Order because, according to the the Code, he was too old. The Council then ordered Jinn and Kenobi to protect Queen Amidala on her return to Theed. At the same time, Amidala was deceived by Palpatine into calling for a
Vote of No Confidence
in Chancellor Valorum, which would eventually lead to the election of Palpatine to the chancellorship. Jinn and Kenobi then assisted Amidala and her forces during the ensuing
battle
against the Trade Federation, when Maul killed Jinn in
combat
, only for the Sith to be defeated by Kenobi. Given the status of Jedi Knight afterward, Kenobi took Skywalker as his apprentice, despite Yoda's reluctance,
and the Jedi Order was left in the dark as to what the Sith's actions were for ten years.
The Jedi were left unaware that they were being deceived by Palpatine, who was using his double identity to eventually complete the Sith's revenge by destroying the Jedi and taking over the Republic.
Separatist Crisis
"
I will not let this Republic that has stood for a thousand years be split in two. My negotiations will not fail.
"
"
If they do, you must realize that there aren't enough Jedi to protect the Republic. We're keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
"
―Sheev Palpatine and Mace Windu
The Separatist Crisis threatened to end the era of peace established by the Republic and the Jedi.
Having broken all ties to the Jedi Order, secretly replacing Maul as Sidious' apprentice, Dooku was believed to be a mere "political idealist" by his peers at the Jedi Order.
For eight years, Dooku was scarcely heard about until he staged a theatrical return to public life by delivering a rousing speech that condemned the Republic and essentially set the stage for the
Separatist Crisis
. At the same time, he fomented political turmoil in many worlds, including Ryloth,
Kashyyyk
,
Sullust
, and Onderon, or tried to convince their leaders to leave the Republic, as in
Eriadu
's case.
Soon enough, Dooku became the face of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, convincing several thousand systems to leave the Republic.
Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi journeyed to Kamino where he discovered the creation of a clone army.
The Jedi Order was unable to ensure the Republic's safety in the event of a war due to its limited numbers. The Republic lacked a standing army, while the mandate of the Jedi was to maintain order as peacekeepers instead of soldiers. Concerned by the growing number of star systems seceding from the Republic, the Senate debated the
Military Creation Act
. During the debate, a
plot to assassinate Senator Amidala
forced the Naboo senator to return to her homeworld with Padawan Anakin Skywalker serving as her
bodyguard
. The task of investigating the plot against Amidala was given to Skywalker's master, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, who
tracked
the
assassin
to the planet Kamino.
After discovering the Kaminoans' creation of the clone army at the behest of the late Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, Kenobi deduced that the army's clone template, the
bounty hunter
Jango Fett
, was the assassin who tried to kill Amidala. Jango and his cloned son,
Boba Fett
, fled from Kamino to escape interrogation by the Jedi. However, Kenobi
followed
the
Fetts
to
Geonosis
where he discovered the
Separatist Droid Army
, prompting the Senate to empower Chancellor Palpatine to unilaterally create the Grand Army of the Republic.
Clone Wars
The first battle
"
I have to admit that without the clones, it would not have been a victory.
"
"
Victory? Victory, you say? Master Obi-Wan, not victory. The shroud of the dark side has fallen. Begun the Clone War has.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda
As the Republic prepared for war, Jedi Master Mace Windu led a
Jedi assault team
to rescue Kenobi on Geonosis. The Jedi confronted the Separatists in the
Geonosian
Petranaki Arena
, destroying many
battle droids
but also sustaining a large number of casualties,
including
Tan Yuster
,
Sar Labooda
,
and
Coleman Trebor
. The remaining Jedi were evacuated from the arena by the Republic clone army that arrived on Geonosis under the command of Grand Master Yoda.
Through the combined efforts of Jedi and clones, the Republic defeated the Separatists in the first battle of the Clone Wars.
Along with the requisite
LAAT
gunships
and
AT-TE
walkers
, over eighty
regiments
of clone troopers
engaged the droid army with the Jedi leading the charge.
Although the Jedi had not yet received a formal commission in the newly formed Grand Army,
the clones nonetheless complied with their orders. Windu,
Kit Fisto
,
Aayla Secura
, and other Jedi fought alongside their
troops
on the battlefield while Yoda was occupied with overseeing the Republic army's strategy from the
forward command center
. The Republic attack caught the Separatist leaders by surprise; despite their initial efforts to organize an effective counterattack, the Separatists ultimately retreated from Geonosis
as the clones achieved ground and air supremacy under the skilled leadership of the Jedi High Council.
Although the
First Battle of Geonosis
concluded as a victory for the Republic, Yoda lamented its outcome as the beginning of the Clone Wars.
The outbreak of the conflict alone was enough to shift the Force's balance.
Jedi of the Republic
"
We do what we have trained our whole lives to do. Trust in the Force. Believe in the path that is set out before us. Stand in defense of all peoples, not just of the Republic, but across the galaxy. We do what any Jedi would when staring into the face of evil. We fight.
"
―Mace Windu
The advent of the Clone Wars forced the Jedi to lead the Grand Army of the Republic and Republic Navy.
The aftermath of the battle on Geonosis saw the Jedi commissioned as
officers
of the Republic Military, with the
military rank
of Jedi General bestowed to Knights and Masters,
and the rank of
Jedi Commander
to Padawans.
The
Jedi Military Integration Act
formallized this and offically made the Jedi Order a part of the Republic Military.
The Jedi were not of a single mind regarding participation in the war. Some Jedi felt they have lost something by becoming the Republic's warriors, but, on the other hand, other Jedi believed that returning to monasticism and contemplation would mean ignoring the suffering going on in the galaxy.
Mace Windu believed that the Jedi should strive to serve as an example by leading the Republic's soldiers on the battlefield, although he was nonetheless affected by the loss of Jedi lives early in the conflict. Windu was troubled by the prospect of more Jedi dying as a result of the Order's decision to fight in the Clone Wars, but Yoda counseled his colleague to set aside his doubts and trust in the Force, acknowledging Windu for his wisdom and capable leadership.
Jedi Master
Prosset Dibs
, meanwhile, opposed Jedi involvement in the war and disliked needing to be involved in battle at all. While still able to fight as a skilled warrior, he felt the Force shudder due to the conflict and remained steadfast in his belief that war was no place for a Jedi.
Dibs and Windu's opposing views came to a head during a
mission to counter Separatist operations
on the planet
Hissrich
, where Dibs was horrified by the civilian cost of war and came to believe the High Council was more interested in the world's resources than protecting its people. Dibs attacked Windu
but was ultimately defeated, with the master standing trial before the High Council after the mission. However, Windu called on the High Council to grant clemency to Dibs, who had stood by his actions and wanted to be put to death to prove that the High Council were nothing more than warmongers. Despite his personal reservations, Windu's experience on Hissrich reminded him of the Jedi Order's commitment to safeguarding the lives of others. With his newfound resolve, Windu affirmed his belief that the Order had a moral responsibility to defend the citizens of the Republic as well as all beings throughout the galaxy.
During the Clone Wars, the Jedi were victorious on battlefronts across the galaxy, including
Christophsis
,
Ryloth,
and
Umbara
.
In their capacity as leaders of the Grand Army of the Republic, the Jedi came to be seen as great warriors. Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, for example, was considered by some to be the greatest warrior of the Jedi Order
and became known as the "
Hero With No Fear
" to the
HoloNet
.
Believing the Order was not political, one Separatist fighter,
Poan of Riek
, believed the war would end quickly because he thought the Jedi would, soon enough, intervene against the Republic. However, Poan then came face-to-face against a Jedi during a
Mission on Leyoye Prime
, in which the Jedi singlehandedly wiped out most of his unit.
The Battle of Christophsis was an early victory for the Jedi-led forces of the Galactic Republic.
During the
Battle of Christophsis
,
Clone Sergeant
Slick
was arrested as a
spy
and traitor for the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The
sergeant
claimed that he acted in the interests of the clones, whom he viewed as a slave army fighting for the Jedi and the Republic. However, the
clone trooper officers
who arrested him—
Clone Commander
Cody
and
Clone Captain
Rex
—questioned Slick's motives, noting how he betrayed the Republic for money and that his actions endangered clone lives. Although Slick succeeded in sabotaging much of the Republic's military equipment,
Jedi Generals Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker successfully led their
battalions
, respectively the
212th Attack Battalion
and the
501st Legion
, to victory over the Separatists on the
Christophsian
homeworld.
The Jedi's forces won the Battle of Ryloth with the support of the Twi'lek Resistance.
The Battle of Ryloth was a coordinated effort by the Republic to liberate the Twi'leks' homeworld from Separatist occupation. With the Jedi in command, the clone troopers mainly relied on using
blaster rifles
and
Electro Magnetic Pulse grenades
to reduce the level of destruction on Ryloth. Whereas the Separatists used the Twi'leks as living shields to deter a direct Republic attack, the Jedi and their clones were careful to avoid causing civilian casualties.
During the final phase of the invasion, General Windu endeavored to take the capital city of
Lessu
with the support of the Twi'lek Resistance led by Cham Syndulla.
Setting aside his dislike for politics,
Windu used diplomacy to win the freedom fighter's help, convincing the rivals Syndulla and Senator
Orn Free Taa
to work together in common cause. The combined forces of Jedi, Republic, and Twi-leks captured the capital along with the Separatist
Emir of Ryloth
Wat Tambor
.
The Jedi successfully invaded Geonosis and destroyed the primary battle droid foundry.
The
Second Battle of Geonosis
occurred after the Geonosian resistance ousted the Republic's
occupation force
from their world. With the Separatists in control of the
Geonosian droid factories
once more, the Jedi returned to Geonosis at the head of an invasion force, having deemed Geonosis crucial to their efforts at restoring order to the Republic. The attack was led by Jedi Generals
Ki-Adi-Mundi
, Obi-Wan Kenobi,
Luminara Unduli
, and Anakin Skywalker.
After the generals' forces converged at the
Point Rain
staging area
, the
primary droid foundry
was destroyed by Jedi
Commanders
Barriss Offee
and
Ahsoka Tano
.
The capture of
Archduke
Poggle the Lesser
subsequently ended Separatist control of Geonosis,
thereby depriving the Confederacy military of further support against the Republic from Geonosis.
Rogue Jedi
"
I did it because I've come to realize what many people in the Republic have come to realize, that the Jedi are the ones responsible for this war, that we've so lost our way that we have become villains in this conflict, that we are the ones that should be put on trial, all of us! And my attack on the Temple was an attack on what the Jedi have become, an army fighting for the dark side, fallen from the light that we once held so dear. This Republic is failing! It's only a matter of time.
"
―Barriss Offee, admitting to the bombing of the Jedi Temple hangar
By the time of the
Alderaan Refugee Conference
, Padmé Amidala stated that over one hundred Jedi had been killed in the war.
More Jedi were killed as the war continued; Jedi Master
Even Piell
died at the
Battle of Lola Sayu
;
during the
assault
on
Vizsla Keep 09
, Count Dooku killed Jedi Master
Tiplee
.
In addition to the casualties of war, the Jedi Order lost a few of its members to the dark side of the Force, such as Jedi Master
Pong Krell
and Padawan Barriss Offee.
Jedi General Pong Krell assumed command of the 501st Legion during the Battle of Umbara.
Krell served in the Clone Wars as a successful Jedi General whose record reflected numerous victories for the Grand Army of the Republic.
His command style resulted in high levels of clone trooper casualties; nevertheless, Krell was an acclaimed war hero by the time of the
Battle of Umbara
,
during which he temporarily assumed command of the 501st
Legion
after Anakin Skywalker returned to Coruscant at the behest of the Jedi High Council and Chancellor Palpatine.
Though originally a Republic
loyalist
world at the onset of the Clone Wars,
Umbara defected to the Separatists in the wake of Senator
Mee Deechi
's assassination. The Republic therefore invaded the
Umbaran
homeworld, precipitating the Battle of Umbara.
By then, Krell had foreseen the rise of a
New Order
in the aftermath of the Clone Wars. Convinced that the Jedi Order would be defeated, Krell secretly betrayed both the Order and the Republic. He sought to prove his new loyalties to Count Dooku by undermining the Republic's efforts to retake Umbara. However, Krell's plans ended when the 501st mutinied against the general's command. Krell was taken into custody after killing multiple clones while resisting arrest. Ultimately, the fallen Jedi Master was executed by
one of his strongest supporters,
Dogma
,
after admitting his betrayal of the Republic.
Barriss Offee was arrested for perpetrating of an attack on the Jedi Temple and conspiring to incriminate Ahsoka Tano.
Barriss Offee believed the Jedi had deviated from their course as peacekeepers and so arranged a
bombing
at the Jedi Temple, for which framed fellow Padawan Ahsoka Tano. Tano, in turn, left the Jedi Order unable to trust the Council after turning its back on her during her
trial
.
Eventually, the High Council came to be aware of Dooku's hand in the creation of the clone army, and of the lies and mistrust that surrounded them, both inside the Temple and the Senate.
Grand Master Yoda even (as it turned out correctly) foresaw that the Jedi might not win the Clone Wars,
just as public support for the Jedi weakened due to their management of the conflict.
The last stand
"
In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you're under arrest, Chancellor.
"
"
Are you threatening me, Master Jedi?
"
"
The Senate will decide your fate.
"
―Mace Windu and Sheev Palpatine
The High Council moved to arrest Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, revealed to be the Sith Lord Darth Sidious.
The war would come to an end in
19 BBY
after Sidious betrayed and orchestrated Tyranus' death in the
Battle of Coruscant
in order to lure Skywalker to the dark side. The Jedi calculated a decisive Republic victory through the destruction of General
Grievous
, which was achieved by Obi-Wan Kenobi during the
Battle of Utapau
. However, Skywalker, whose turmoil clouded his judgment, learned that Palpatine was Sidious. Though he informed Windu of Palpatine's identity, Sidious resisted the Jedi's efforts to arrest him, killing three Jedi Masters—Kit Fisto,
Agen Kolar
, and
Saesee Tiin
—forcing Windu to
duel
the Dark Lord alone. Skywalker rushed to
Palpatine's office
as Windu and the chancellor fought, arriving moments after the Jedi champion disarmed the Sith Lord. Before Windu could kill Sidious, Skywalker betrayed him by severing his hand, which led to the Jedi Master's death. Believing Sidious had the power to save his
secret wife
, Padmé Amidala, Skywalker betrayed the Jedi and became Sidious' apprentice, and was given the name of Darth Vader.
The purge
"
A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the Jedi are all but extinct.
"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Luke Skywalker
Converted to the dark side, Anakin Skywalker led the Great Jedi Purge as the Sith Lord Darth Vader.
Deceitfully branding Windu's actions as treason, Palpatine declared the Jedi to be enemies of the Republic and sent Vader to oversee the
siege of the Jedi Temple
. As his new apprentice purged the Temple of its inhabitants, including the younglings, Sidious had his Clone Commanders to execute Order 66, thereby activating the biochips that programmed the clones to see the Jedi as traitors to the Republic. As a result, thousands of Jedi throughout the galaxy were betrayed and executed by their clones including Ki-Adi-Mundi on
Mygeeto
, Aayla Secura on Felucia,
Plo Koon
on
Cato Neimoidia
,
Stass Allie
on
Saleucami
,
Depa Billaba
on
Kaller
,
and
Jaro Tapal
above
Bracca
.
Out of an estimated number of ten-thousand Jedi,
just a few survived to see the
proclamation of the New Order
, marking the inception of the Galactic Empire and the rise of Palpatine as its
Emperor
.
Survivors included Yoda,
Obi-Wan Kenobi,
Ahsoka Tano,
Caleb Dume
,
Cal Kestis
,
Cere Junda
and her Padawan
Trilla Suduri
,
Taron Malicos
,
and at least initially,
Uvell
,
Luminara Unduli,
Oppo Rancisis
,
Eeth Koth
,
Coleman Kcaj
,
Jocasta Nu
,
Kirak Infil'a
,
Selrahc Eluos
,
Ka-Moon Kholi
,
Zubain Ankonori
,
Khandra
,
Mususiel
,
Nuhj
,
Ferren Barr
, and possibly
Quinlan Vos
.
During their self-imposed exile, Kenobi and Yoda, along with Senator
Bail Organa
, hid Vader's newborn children, the Force-sensitive
twins
Luke Skywalker and
Leia Organa
, from the Sith, hoping that in time they would become the key to the Jedi Order's future to stop the dark side.
The Galactic Empire hunted the few remaining Jedi who survived the initial execution of Order 66.
Word about the supposed Jedi rebellion and the Order's destruction spread throughout the galactic population, and clone troopers were ordered to hunt down any Jedi survivors.
According to Imperial Admiral
Rae Sloane
, the Jedi that had survived Order 66 made a
last stand
against a clone trooper charge led personally by the future war veteran and
Shadow Council
member
Hodnar Borrum
, who was known to hold disdain for the Force, on a
mountain
fortress on either
Madar
or
Morad
.
Palpatine squarely blamed the Jedi for the galaxy's recent crises
and painted them as warmongers whose planned coup
involved creating the Separatist Alliance
and Clone Wars in the first place.
Relieved to see the bloody war over at last and eager for any sense of normalcy to resume, the populous embraced Palpatine's empire, with most of the galaxy blasting the Jedi for their alleged betrayal or even simply because they had failed to prevent, or effectively win, the war.
In addition to the Empire's suppression of all information relating to the Jedi, it was considered treasonous to be a Jedi or render assistance to a Jedi. Imperial laws also prohibited the use or study of the Force, resulting in the banning of educational studies concerning the Jedi. As a consequence, instructors who specialized in Jedi history lost their positions,
including
Sava
Korin Pers
and Sava Madelin Sun from the
University of Bar'leth
.
Within five years of the Order's destruction,
the Jedi were effectively erased from the collective consciousness in the galaxy due to the
Great Jedi Purge
,
which also involved the systematic destruction of their temples
and the unceasing, extensive hunts carried out by the
Inquisitorius
.
Jedi survivors that were captured were taken to
Mustafar
for interrogation and execution,
as well as the
Spire
on
Stygeon Prime
, wherein the body of Luminara Unduli was preserved to lure out any surviving Jedi.
Among the last reservoirs of knowledge of the Order were
Antron Bach
's vault in an abandoned
colony
, created at Uvell's behest,
and
Grakkus
the
Hutt
's private collection on
Nar Shaddaa
.
Safeguarding holocrons, lightsabers, journals, archives, and other artifacts, they partially preserved the teachings of the fallen Order.
The surviving Jedi
Nedriss Narr
and
Vanzell Mar-Klar
attempted to train new younglings in a secret temple.
Dark times
Fallen order
"
The Jedi were
good
. Like all of us, they failed to secure the peace. They were drawn into the war like everyone else, and their hands were
not
clean. If I can accept the blame for my part, they certainly earned their share, too.
But
for thousands of years they could have ruled the galaxy, and instead they chose to serve. They had their own vested interests, their own ways of politicking. But they believed their power came with an obligation to live humbly, to do good without asserting authority. Maybe they failed to live up to those ideals in the end. I haven't seen your evidence. What do
I
know about the extent of their betrayals? But they were good and they were ordinary and they were fallible, and even the most smug and arrogant were trying to hew to a tradition older than the Republic. They deserved better than to die at the hands of power-hungry old men who saw them as a threat.
We
deserved better than to lose another people, another religion, from the universe. All of us are poorer for their loss.
[…]
The Jedi deserve justice… or at least a decent funeral.
"
―Mon Mothma, to
Soujen Vak-Nhalis
For nearly twenty years, the Empire was able to expand without opposition of a disbanded Jedi Order. A few of its former members, however survived and stayed true to their code of honor and continued to fight the Empire's injustice, albeit in different ways. Though former Padawan Ahsoka Tano had become disillusioned by the Council's actions and no longer identified as a Jedi, she came into contact with Bail Organa from
Alderaan
, with whom she worked to coordinate the efforts of a rebellion under the codename "Fulcrum," fifteen years after the fall of the Republic.
Having survived the execution of Order 66, Padawan Cal Kestis endeavored to resurrect the fallen Jedi Order.
Five years after the rise of the Empire and the destruction of the Jedi Order, there was an attempt to bring the Order back. Padawan Cal Kestis, who had been hiding on Bracca since Order 66, was recruited by the former Jedi Knight Cere Junda, who believed that the return of the Jedi Order was the best option to defeat the Empire. Having spent so long in hiding due to the persecution of the Jedi, Kestis did not trust Junda at first, suspecting that she might have come to him out of interest in the rewards offered by the Empire. Despite this, he joined her in her
mission to rebuild the Order
. To accomplish this, they sought to recover a
holocron
that had been hidden on the planet
Bogano
by Jedi Master
Eno Cordova
. This holocron contained a list of the locations of Force-sensitive children across the galaxy.
After scouring ancient ruins for clues left behind by the extinct
Zeffo civilization
, Kestis succeeded in unlocking the
Vault
that contained the holocron, but the artifact was taken by the
Second Sister
, an Inquisitor who had been Junda's Padawan before the Purge. Junda proclaimed Kestis a Jedi Knight, and together they
pursued
the Second Sister to the
Fortress Inquisitorius
on the
ocean
moon
Nur
. They succeeded in retrieving the holocron from the Second Sister, who was executed by Darth Vader. The Dark Lord overpowered both Jedi, wounded Kestis for refusing to surrender the holocron, and goaded Junda to embrace the dark side. Ultimately, though, Kestis and Junda managed to escape from Vader with their
allies'
help. Despite Kestis' commitment to the restoration of the Jedi Order, the young Jedi Knight destroyed the holocron to protect the Force-sensitive younglings, entrusting their fate to the will of the Force.
Along with other survivors, Jedi Knight Tensu Run aimed to restore the Jedi Order.
Jedi Knight
Tensu Run
became a threat to the Empire, as after freeing prisoners from an
Imperial outpost
during the
Conquest of Regis Kor
, he became a symbol of hope. Tensu Run's
death
became one of the Inquisitorius' highest priorities, with
the Grand Inquisitor
,
the
Fifth Brother
,
the
Seventh Sister
and the
Ninth Sister
,
all participating in the
hunt
. The Inquisitors were defeated more than once by the Jedi Knight, who, along with other survivors of Order 66, sought to restore the Jedi Order. Due to the Inquisitors' failures, Darth Vader led the four Inquisitors in a final confrontation with the Jedi, which resulted in Run's death by the hands of the Sith Lord, as well as the other Jedi, who were killed by the Inquisitors.
Rediscovery of an abandoned world
"
Tanalorr's a fortress. We should use it for the Hidden Path. Gather allies. Train. They'd never see us coming.
"
―Cal Kestis
Hidden in the deadly Koboh Abyss nebula, Tanalorr was a world that was abandoned by the Jedi Order and could have proven to be its future.
Over the five years following the holocron's destruction, Kestis had become an extremely important target for the Empire, having attracted the attention of not only the Inquisitorius but also the
Imperial Security Bureau
through his
crusade against the Empire
. In
9 BBY
, on the planet
Koboh
, Kestis encountered something from the Jedi's golden ag;. Kestis encountered the Jedi
Dagan Gera
, who had been preserved in bacta since the days of the High Republic. Kestis freed the old Jedi and asked for his help in his fight against the Empire. However, Gera had fallen out with the Jedi Order, which he believed had betrayed him because the Jedi had given up on
Tanalorr
, a hard-to-reach world Dagan had become obsessed with, after an
attack
by the
Nihil
. Gera, who had fallen to the dark side, bled the kyber crystal from his lightsaber and began a duel with Kestis.
Dagan escaped with the help of his old ally, the
Gen'Dai
Rayvis
, and intended to return to Tanalorr and create an army led by Force users trained by himself to fight the Empire. However, due to the clouded view of Gera by the dark side, Kestis opposed his plan. Along with
Bode Akuna
, Kestis killed Dagan and obtained the compass that would guide them to Tanalorr, a place that Kestis intended to transform into a refuge for those persecuted by the Empire.
Cere Junda's death left Jedi Cal Kestis determined to build something that would outlast the Empire.
However, the compass was stolen by Akuna, who was another survivor of the Jedi Purge and had begun working with the ISB as a spy to survive. Akuna intended to flee to Tanalorr with he daughter so that they could live free from the Empire forever, which, in he opinion, Kestis' intentions for Tanalorr jeopardized. Kestis followed Akuna to Tanalorr, and along with his ally, the
Nightsister
Merrin
, slew him. Kestis and his friends took in Bode's daughter and held a Jedi funeral for Akuna, Cere Junda, and Eno Cordova, who were trying to restore knowledge from the
Jedi Archives
and were killed due to Akuna stealing the compass. With the compass in their possession, Kestis and his allies began to prepare Tanalorr for use in the
Hidden Path
's operations. Kestis also intended to use Tanalorr as a location to continue Cere's work of gathering knowledge from the Jedi Archives.
Rebellion and war
"
Things are getting worse, just as they did when I was your age. But back then, there were ten thousand Jedi protecting the galaxy. Now…
"
"
There's just you and me.
"
―Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger
The Jedi Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger supported the early Rebellion against the Empire.
Eight years after the end of the Clone Wars, Caleb Dume, who had assumed the identity of Kanan Jarrus, joined forces with the Twi'lek rebel fighter
Hera Syndulla
.
Together, the two established a
small rebel cell
based on the starship
Ghost
.
Fifteen years into the
Imperial Era
, a number of inaccurate tales about the Jedi started to appear. For example, the bounty hunter duo
Gowski
and
Fiscal
were under the impression that Jedi aged backward, were able to fly, and had unusually dense
bones
.
About five years before the Battle of Yavin, Jarrus took on a Force-sensitive teenager named
Ezra Bridger
as his apprentice.
Jarrus'
decision to ignite
his lightsaber
on
Kessel
drew the attention of
the Grand Inquisitor
, whom Vader had tasked with hunting down Jedi and recruiting the "children of the Force."
Under Jarrus' tutelage, Bridger trained as a Jedi while evading the Grand Inquisitor and other Imperial agents.
Bridger completed his Jedi Trials at the Lothal Jedi Temple under the guidance of Master Yoda, who also counseled Jarrus to continue training Bridger.
At the instigation of
Grand Moff
Wilhuff Tarkin
, the Grand Inquisitor and
Agent
Alexsandr Kallus
concocted a
trap
that captured Jarrus. However, Bridger and the other rebels mounted a
mission
to rescue Jarrus and killed the Grand Inquisitor. In the process, they encountered other members of the rebellion including the former Padawan Ahsoka Tano, who had become a key rebel leader.
Return of the Jedi
"
You failed, your Highness. I am a Jedi, like my father before me.
"
―Luke Skywalker, to Darth Sidious
During a mission, they inspired not only the people of Lothal to fight the Empire, but also the early "Alliance" to finally organize and to bring several Rebel cells together, paving the way for the Alliance to Restore the Republic.
An underground faith known as the
Church of the Force
emerged in support of the Jedi and their ideals, believing that only their return could restore balance to the Force.
The galaxy found a new hope in Anakin Skywalker's son, Luke Skywalker, who became a Jedi like his father before him.
In
1 BBY
,
Obi-Wan Kenobi emerged from his exile on Tatooine, not only to help
deliver
the
plans
of the
Death Star
to the Rebel Alliance as requested by Rebel leader Princess Leia Organa but to begin training Luke Skywalker to become a Jedi Knight,
in the hopes that Skywalker would be able to defeat both Vader and the Emperor.
Through Skywalker, with Kenobi's
guidance
, the Rebel Alliance achieved a significant victory in the Battle of Yavin, which meant a turning point for the Alliance in the
Galactic Civil War
, though at the cost of Kenobi who sacrificed himself to save Skywalker.
In
3 ABY
,
Skywalker received training from Yoda on
Dagobah
.
Hailed as "the last of the Jedi," Skywalker was told by Yoda to pass on what he had learned so that the legacy of the Jedi Order could go on, before passing.
Forced to duel Vader while Sidious watched during the
Battle of Endor
, Skywalker briefly gave into anger and fear and cut off his father's hand. Satisfied, Sidious betrayed Vader by ordering Luke to take his place on Sidious' side, but Skywalker rejected his anger and proclaimed he would always remain a Jedi, which led to him being
tortured
by the furious Emperor. In agony, he begged his father to save him, convincing the former Anakin Skywalker to save his son, leading to the redeemed Jedi Knight to destroy his master. By destroying his master and the Sith,
Anakin brought balance to the Force for the time being,
ultimately fulfilling his role as the Chosen One. While the injuries he sustained in the process of destroying Sidious, led to his death shortly after, Anakin made peace with Luke before passing and becoming a
Force ghost
alongside Yoda and Obi-Wan,
who assured him that his son likely had a bright future ahead.
After the
Battle of Jakku
, the Empire officially
surrendered
to the
New Republic
by way of the
Galactic Concordance
, which put strict provisions on the rump state.
In the
Unknown Regions
, however, fleeing
Imperial officers
and
nobles
conspired to rebuild their armies and
fleets
, culminating in the rise of the hermetic
First Order
.
In the meantime, Skywalker gained a new ally in an individual named
Lor San Tekka
, a member of the Church of the Force during the dark times,
who believed the return of the Jedi was necessary to have balance in the Force
and aided Skywalker in retrieving lost Jedi lore.
An order reborn
Stumbled Beginnings
"
After the Empire fell and the Sith Lords were vanquished, I had great hope for the future of the Jedi. I came to believe that if a single Jedi could help bring balance back to the Force, then perhaps a restored Jedi Order could maintain that peace and prevent the dark side from ever regaining its hold on the galaxy.
"
―Luke Skywalker
As the last Jedi, Skywalker carried the mandate of restoring the Jedi Order.
Following the Battle of Endor, the Alliance General Han Solo and the former
Princess
of Alderaan, Leia Organa, were
married
and after the final defeat of the Empire at
Jakku
, they had a son named
Ben Solo
.
Ben was Luke Skywalker's nephew,
as Organa was his twin sister, a fact Skywalker only learned from the Force spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi following Yoda's death.
Before her wedding, Skywalker had spoken to Organa about training her and affirmed that she did not need to give up her marriage to Solo if she went down the Jedi path. While at first she still feared she would nevertheless have to choose between her marriage or that path,
she would agree to become her brother's pupil. On
Ajan Kloss
, Skywalker trained Organa in the ways of the Jedi as his first student.
She even constructed
her own lightsaber
, but after seeing a vision of her son's death as the culmination of her Jedi training, Organa declined to progress further. She then directed her focus to the future of the New Republic.
Around
five years
after the Battle of Endor, Skywalker helped rescue Grogu, a mysterious child of the same species as Yoda, survivor of the siege of the Jedi Temple and who had performed great feats in the Force. Skywalker expressed his desire to train the child in the ways of the Force and took Grogu in with the approval of the child's protector, the Mandalorian
Din Djarin
.
With Ahsoka Tano helping to oversee the effort,
the Jedi Temple of Luke Skywalker was founded as a training center when Skywalker attempted to restore the Jedi Order,
with Grogu becoming Skywalker's first student. After Tano parted ways with them for the time being, Skywalker gave Grogu a choice; he could remain with his new Jedi Order or return to Din Djarin.
Grogu chose to return to Djarin, ending his Jedi training and having Skywalker send R2-D2 to pilot Grogu to Tatooine to reunite him with Djarin.
A new generation
"
For many years, there was balance and then I saw Ben. My nephew with that mighty Skywalker blood. In my hubris, I thought I could train him; I could pass on my strengths. Han was
Han
about it, but… Leia trusted me with her son. I took him and a dozen students, and began a training temple.
"
―Luke Skywalker, to Rey
Although Skywalker regarded Kenobi and Yoda as the greatest masters in Jedi history, he knew that his training was unorthodox. As a Jedi Master, Skywalker aimed to provide his apprentices with a more traditional approach to the Jedi arts, and as such, his Padawans followed a training regime similar to the one that existed during the Republic Era.
The New Jedi Order began as a class of Force-sensitive younglings, beginning with Skywalker's nephew, Ben Solo,
whom he agreed to train in the ways of the Force at his sister's behest. In many ways, Solo reminded his parents of his grandfather, Darth Vader, therefore Organa wanted him to train with his uncle in the hope that he would not turn to the dark side as well.
Skywalker founded a temple where he could train a new generation of Jedi apprentices, including his nephew Ben Solo.
In addition to Solo, Skywalker recruited several other students including
Hennix
,
Tai
, and
Voe
during his visits to many worlds over two
decades
.
During this time, Solo was trained in lightsaber combat and became skilled with the Jedi weapon.
In
19 ABY,
Skywalker traveled with his nephew and Lor San Tekka to the Jedi outpost on Elphrona seeking Jedi artifacts. The trio were accosted by a dark side sect known as the
Knights of Ren
. Master Skywalker used his Force powers to defeat the Knights. Before leaving, the Knights' leader
Ren
told Solo to contact the Knights should he ever consider exploring the dark side further.
By
21 ABY
,
the new Jedi Order had grown to the point where it already had senior pupils on top of a new class of younglings in training. Around this time, Luke Skywalker experienced visions that distracted him from some of his basic duties at the academy, leaving some of his senior students to take over for him on this duties. A Twi'lek woman named
Enyo
served as an instructor on lightsaber combat, running a class of younglings through a series of exercises with
training blades
. When Skywalker went on a mission with Lor San Tekka that distanced him from his temple, Ben Solo, who had also taken the duties of running training exercises on the younger students, stayed to oversee the academy.
The temple's destruction
"
I never… I didn't want this.
"
"
And you did not choose it, Ben. The
Jedi
did. Skywalker.
"
―Ben Solo and Snoke
The confrontation between Skywalker and his nephew had fateful consequences for the New Jedi Order.
Solo's family would ultimately learn that he was gradually seduced to the ways of the dark side through the machinations of the First Order's ruler,
Supreme Leader
Snoke
.
Organa blamed Snoke as the sole cause of her son's descent into darkness, culminating in the
destruction of the Jedi Temple
, but Skywalker felt responsible for his nephew's fate. Sensing the dark side's influence within Solo, Skywalker probed his nephew's mind and beheld visions of the dark warrior that he was becoming. Skywalker instinctively raised
his lightsaber
to kill his nephew while he slept, believing Solo would destroy all that he loved; however, he stopped himself from killing his sister's son, and was overcome by shame. He then saw that Solo had awoken. He saw fear in the eyes of his young nephew, and in that moment Skywalker felt he had failed as a Jedi Master.
Solo reached for his blade and razed the hut using the Force, collapsing it in on his uncle.
As Solo struggled to comprehend the situation and lost control of his emotions, the Jedi Temple was destroyed by a powerful lightning storm, killing most of Skywalker's other students. Shortly later, Hennix, Tai, and Voe returned from an offworld trip. They confronted Ben Solo, who told them that Skywalker had tried to murder him. Skeptical, they tried to detain him but Solo fled following a brief skirmish and sought Snoke. Hennix, Tai, and Voe resolved to find Solo and investigate what had happened. Meanwhile, Solo sought out Snoke and the two decided to seek out the Knights of Ren.
With his temple destroyed, Skywalker exiled himself to Ahch-To, vowing to never train another student.
Skywalker regained consciousness in the rubble of his nephew's hut too late to prevent Solo's destruction of the Jedi temple and the deaths of the students inside. Solo had already fled, and Skywalker could only witness his temple still burning alongside his
astromech droid
,
R2-D2
.
Skywalker felt responsible for the ordeal and decided to exile himself, although those closest to him learned that he was also searching for the first Jedi Temple. Skywalker only left traces of his location in a single star
map
, with the remaining data being present in old Imperial records. Skywalker eventually found the first Jedi temple on the aquatic world of Ahch-To, where he took up refuge and lived in exile as a
hermit
.
Skywalker vowed to never attempt another rebirth of the Jedi Order, and therefore resolved to die as the last Jedi.
The Jedi Killer
"
Now you will be who you are. Who you were always meant to be.
"
―Darth Sidious, to Ben Solo
Rejecting the Jedi and his family, Ben Solo adopted the identity of Kylo Ren.
Traveling to the Jedi outpost on Elphrona, Solo contacted Ren, who told him to find the Knights of Ren on Varnak. However, Hennix, Tai and Voe caught up with the fugitive Solo.
Though Tai preferred to reason with Solo, Voe and Hennix
fought
him, believing that he had a role in destroying the Jedi Temple and killing their brethren. Solo killed Hennix in self-defense before fleeing to Varnak. However, Ren was still unsatisfied that Solo was worthy to become a Knight of Ren but took him on a trial run.
To test Solo's worthiness for the dark side, the Knights of Ren enlisted his services in obtaining a Force relic called the
Mindsplinter
from a group of
Mimbanese
on the
Minemoon
. Using Tai's connection to Solo, Tai and Voe tracked him down there. During the
ensuing skirmish
, Tai tried to reason with Solo but was murdered by Ren, who deemed him unworthy. Consumed by rage and grief, Solo killed Ren and Voe, embracing the dark side. Taking the path of darkness, Solo became the
master of the Knights of Ren
, adopting the name "Kylo Ren" and
bleeding
his kyber crystal.
Solo turned to the dark side of the Force and became an apprentice of
Snoke
, joining the First Order and the Knights of Ren in the process and taking on the new identity of Kylo Ren.
By the time of the outbreak of the First Order/Resistance War, Ren had gained a reputation of a "Jedi killer" due to Ren's skills with
his lightsaber
and his role in destroying Skywalker's new Jedi and his hopes of fully restoring the Jedi Order.
Ren was determined to live up to the legacy of his grandfather,
whom he considered to be Darth Vader
instead of Anakin Skywalker.
An awakening
"
If Skywalker returns, the new Jedi will
rise
.
"
―Snoke
As Luke Skywalker's efforts to rebuild the Jedi Order had seemingly failed,
the Jedi Master's fabled return became a symbol of hope for those who believed in him and the Jedi. For others, he remained a myth, but he also posed a threat for those who feared his reappearance, such as Supreme Leader Snoke and the First Order, who believed Skywalker's return would also mean the rise of the new Jedi. It was by this time that an awakening occurred within the Force. Snoke and Ren both sensed it;
Snoke was certain that as his apprentice grew stronger with the dark side, his counterpart in the light would rise as well. Convinced that it was Skywalker,
Snoke directed Ren to seek out and destroy his former master.
Ren hunted Skywalker across the galaxy, searching for clues to the whereabouts of his old master.
While Skywalker's location was unknown to the galaxy at large, his old ally, Lor San Tekka, came into possession of a piece of a
star map
to the first Jedi Temple some thirty years after the Battle of Endor. When the
Resistance
, a splinter cell of the
New Republic Defense Force
led by General Leia Organa that
opposed
the First Order, learned of this, General Organa dispatched
Poe Dameron
to attempt to retrieve the map from San Tekka's
residence
on Jakku. The First Order, however, also seeking Skywalker in an effort to destroy the last of the Jedi, likewise learned of San Tekka's findings and
attacked
Jakku in an effort to retrieve it. An astromech
droid
named
BB-8
, with the map in tow, successfully
escaped
from Jakku with the aid of a Force-sensitive
scavenger
named
Rey
and a
First Order stormtrooper
deserter named
Finn
, who previously helped Dameron escape the First Order's custody. They met and traveled alongside Han Solo and his
Wookiee
partner,
Chewbacca
, in a journey to return BB-8 to the Resistance.
During the search for Skywalker, Ren discovered Rey, a Force-sensitive scavenger with a mysterious past.
After a
devastating attack
against the New Republic's capital by the First Order's
Starkiller Base
, the Resistance sought to
destroy
the First Order superweapon. Once there, Han Solo attempted to turn his son back to the light, but he was killed by Ren instead, who was attempting to fully commit to Snoke and the dark side. Rey subsequently defeated Ren in a
lightsaber duel
and Starkiller Base was destroyed, after which the Resistance finally pieced together the map to Skywalker with help from R2-D2. Organa, relieved to finally find her brother, sought to bring him home. She sent Rey, along with Chewbacca and R2-D2, to Ahch-To, where the young girl found Skywalker among the refuge of the first Jedi temple.
There, Rey presented the Jedi Master with his
father's lightsaber
—which
he had lost
on
Cloud City
decades prior—
as a symbol of the only hope the galaxy had left in defeating Kylo Ren, Snoke, the First Order and Knights of Ren by bringing about the return of the Jedi Order.
Last of the Jedi
"
The rebellion is reborn today, the war is just beginning, and I will not be the last Jedi.
"
―Luke Skywalker
Rey sought out Skywalker, but the Jedi Master was unwilling to train her or help the Resistance.
Rey was surprised to find that Luke Skywalker, the last Jedi, instead rejected her plea for help, tossing his father's lightsaber over his shoulder and confining himself within his hut near the first Jedi Temple. Undeterred, in part thanks to her past as a Jakku scavenger,
Rey followed Skywalker as he carried on his daily routine despite Skywalker telling her and Chewbacca that he would not face down the First Order. Skywalker was intrigued by Rey, however, when she felt voices calling her through the Force to an
uneti tree
containing the sacred Jedi texts. After sneaking aboard the
Millennium Falcon
and being shown a
hologram
of his sister's call for help to Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi decades earlier by R2-D2, however, Skywalker changed his mind and agreed to teach Rey the ways of the Jedi—and why, in his mind, it was time for the Jedi to end.
The bond between Kylo Ren and Rey allowed them to communicate with each other through the Force.
Meanwhile, however, a
Force-bond
had opened up between Rey and Kylo Ren, something that Rey decided not to tell her new master. When Skywalker discovered this, he abruptly ended his training of Rey, telling her to leave. After a brief duel, Skywalker finally confessed to Rey the truth of the night his nephew destroyed his fledgling New Jedi Order. Rey, who had grown sympathetic to Ren's conflict over their shared feelings of abandonment, decided to leave Skywalker in an attempt to redeem Ren in the light side, as Skywalker had done to his father decades earlier.
Rey traveled to the
Supremacy
, where Ren took her before his dark side master, Supreme Leader Snoke. Snoke proceeded to use the Force to tortuously probe Rey's mind, finding Skywalker's location. Snoke vowed to obliterate the last Jedi after dealing with the Resistance. Rey defied Snoke, trying to lash out at him; deeming her to have "the spirit of a true Jedi," he commanded Ren to execute Rey. Instead, however, Ren used his grandfather's lightsaber to bisect the Supreme Leader. Ren and Rey then fought Snoke's
Elite Praetorian Guard
, defeating them. However, Ren did not turn back to the light side as Rey believed, rather he usurped his master, fully engrossed in the dark side. Ren offered Rey the chance to rule the galaxy by his side, but instead, the two fought over Skywalker's lightsaber, eventually breaking it in half using the Force, knocking both unconscious.
Although Skywalker sacrificed himself for the Resistance, his death did not mark the end of the Jedi.
After regaining consciousness, Rey escaped the
Supremacy
, regrouping with Chewbacca and R2-D2 above the
Millennium Falcon
. They came to the aid of the Resistance during Ren's
siege of Crait
—as did Luke Skywalker. After reuniting with his sister Organa, Skywalker faced his nephew before the
First Order Army
. However, Skywalker was in fact
projecting
himself across the galaxy from Ahch-To, buying time for the Resistance's survivors to escape. By the time Ren realized this, it was too late; the remaining survivors of the Resistance, including Poe Dameron, Finn, and Leia Organa, had escaped aboard the
Millennium Falcon
with Chewbacca and Rey, who Skywalker acknowledged as a Jedi. Skywalker's projection disappeared and back at the first Jedi Temple, Skywalker, having exerted a great amount of energy, passed away, becoming one with the Force before the twin suns of Ahch-To. Rey, meanwhile, had recovered Skywalker's lightsaber and began working with the Resistance on the process of building a rebellion against the First Order, while Skywalker's heroic tale spread across the galaxy, inspiring others as the First Order rose to power.
Return and Demise of the Sith Order
"
I am
all
the Sith!
"
"
And I… I'm all the Jedi.
"
―Darth Sidious and Rey
Darth Sidious returned after his first death to herald the rebirth of the Sith and the ultimate destruction of the Jedi Order.
In the
year
following the Battle of
Crait
, Rey repaired the Skywalker lightsaber continued her Jedi training under Luke Skywalker's twin sister, Leia Organa, who had once briefly trained under her brother as a Jedi herself. Meanwhile, Kylo Ren and the First Order cracked down on any worlds that spread the tale of his defeat at the hands of Luke Skywalker. During that time, a
cult of loyalists
to the extinct Sith, the
Sith Eternal
, revealed themselves to the galaxy from the Unknown Regions by broadcasting the voice of the late Emperor Palpatine, the public identity of Darth Sidious, who was thought to be dead since the Battle of
Endor
. After
obtaining
a
Sith wayfinder
from
Mustafar
, Ren traveled to Exegol and found that Sidious still lived. The Emperor promised Ren the Sith Eternal's fleet of
Xyston
-class Star Destroyers
, the
Final Order
, if he killed Rey, the last Jedi and the granddaughter of Sidious.
After traveling to
Pasaana
and
Kijimi
, Rey was
confronted
by Ren in the
Death Star ruins
on
Kef Bir
. Ren, having revealed to Rey her true
lineage
, attempted to turn her to the dark side. Their duel was interrupted when Ren sensed his mother's death across the galaxy, allowing Rey to wound the Supreme Leader while he was distracted. After healing Ren, Rey stole his
TIE Whisperer
and returned to the first Jedi Temple on Ahch-To to exile herself as her master had, afraid of her
powers
and her potential for the dark side as a descendant of Darth Sidious. The spirit of Luke Skywalker appeared before Rey to motivate and encourage her, teaching his student one last lesson: that confronting fear was the destiny of all Jedi. Skywalker gave Rey his sister's lightsaber and lifted
his
old
starfighter
out of the Ahch-To seas with the Force, allowing her to use Ren's
wayfinder
to travel to Exegol. Rey charted her path through hyperspace and transmitted the coordinates to the Resistance, allowing them to travel to Exegol as well.
During the Battle of Exegol, Ben Solo and Rey stood together as Jedi against the Sith Emperor.
The
Battle of Exegol
was fought between the Resistance and the Sith Eternal. It was during the battle that Rey confronted her grandfather Sidious, who offered her the
Throne of the Sith
and asked her to take her revenge for having her
father
and
mother
killed by sacrificing him as part of a
ritual
, allowing the Sith to reborn and ending the Jedi. However, a redeemed Ben Solo, who had renounced the dark side and shed his identity as Kylo Ren, arrived to help Rey. Solo defeated the Knights of Ren, but he and Rey were caught by the Dark Lord of the Sith, who learned that the two were a
prophesied
Force dyad
. Sidious used their bond to heal himself, drawing on their combined life force to restore his body before tossing Solo into a nearby abyss to take his revenge on the
Skywalker family
for killing him years earlier at the Battle of Endor. The Sith Lord then unleashed his Force lightning on the Resistance and their
Citizens' Fleet
above. However, Rey was able to reach out to the past Jedi.
The Jedi Order was gone, but their strength remained.
The Emperor was destroyed by his granddaughter Rey, who was strengthened by the spirits of the Jedi.
Upon hearing their voices call to her, Rey was strengthened and rose to face her grandfather. Sidious redirected his Force lightning towards Rey, who defended herself with the lightsabers of her masters. As Sidious boasted that he was all the Sith, Rey responded that she was all the Jedi, and she deflected Sidious's lightning back towards him, causing the Sith Lord to disintegrate and be destroyed at last, preventing the rebirth of the Sith. A massive explosion burst out and erupted, causing the
Sith Citadel
beneath Exegol to collapse and crumble on the Sith Eternal cultists. Rey sacrificed herself to stop the Emperor, and Solo sacrificed his life in turn to resurrect Rey. With his death, the Skywalker bloodline became extinct.
The destruction of the Sith marked a new era in galactic history, to be shaped by the Force in ways as yet unknown.
Some time later, Rey buried her mentor's lightsabers at the
Lars moisture farm
on Tatooine, the homeworld of the Skywalkers, and unsheathed her own
lightsaber
. When a
local elderly woman
stumbled upon Rey using her lightsaber, she asked the scavenger her name. Seeing the spirits of Luke and Leia in the distance, Rey responded that she was "Rey Skywalker."
In the aftermath of the First Order/Resistance War, Rey eventually gained the status of Jedi Master while fighting to restore galactic peace. As Master, Rey started to work on rebuilding the Jedi Order.
Legacy
"
Now that they're extinct, the Jedi are romanticized, deified. But if you strip away the myth and look at their deeds, the legacy of the Jedi is failure. Hypocrisy, hubris…
"
"
That's not true.
"
"
At the height of their powers, they allowed Darth Sidious to rise, create the Empire, and wipe them out. It was a Jedi Master who was responsible for the training and creation of Darth Vader.
"
"
And a Jedi who saved him.
"
―Luke Skywalker and Rey
The Jedi Order was mythologized after its extinction, surviving in memory as a symbol of hope in the galaxy.
After the fall of the Empire, the Jedi Order's memory was rehabilitated and mythologized. The Jedi were romanticized during the New Republic Era, becoming deified symbols of a bygone era. Despite the Order's extinction, Supreme Leader Snoke endeavored to eradicate all traces of its past, believing that the Jedi inspired hope in the enemies of the First Order.
Luke Skywalker, a legendary Jedi Master, devoted years to rediscovering the Order’s history which he chronicled in the book ‘’
The Secrets of the Jedi
‘’. Although Skywalker held individual Jedi, such as Mace Windu, Yoda, or Qui-Gon Jinn, in high esteem,
he became disillusioned by the Order’s failure toward the end of its history prior to the rise of the Empire. He faulted the Order for not thwarting the machinations of Darth Sidious, causing the extinction of the Jedi. Skywalker also believed that his old mentor, Obi-Wan Kenobi, was responsible for his father’s transformation into Darth Vader. Later, to Rey, Skywalker admitted that he was wrong and encouraged her to keep the Jedi way and fight Sidious.
After his faith in the Jedi was restored by Rey and Yoda, Skywalker’s final stand allowed the legend of the Jedi to spread once more, bringing hope to the galaxy.
Behind the scenes
Development and portrayal
The Jedi Order (as formal organization, not just scattered survivors) first appeared in the current
canon
in
Star Wars
: Episode I
The Phantom Menace
, though it previously appeared in various
Star Wars
Legends
sources beforehand. The lore of the Jedi Order and of the Force was greatly expanded upon during the
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
television series and other media. The role of the Jedi Order in preserving the peace of the Republic, the controversy of them stepping into the role of military leaders, and their rules against attachment in order to keep to the light are pivotal plot points that Darth Sidious all exploits, which eventually leads to the Order's downfall in
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
. Prior to that, they had been mentioned indirectly as the Jedi in the original trilogy as Luke Skywalker encounters Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and later Master Yoda. In
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
, Yoda charges Luke with carrying on the lessons and legacy of the Jedi Order.
For the word "Jedi," Lucas took inspiration from the
Japanese
term "
Jidaigeki
," which refers to a drama set during the
Edo period
of Japanese history, when
samurai
were still in activity.
The word "Jedi" is a singular plural.
The Jedi Order originated in the rough draft of
Star Wars
as the Galactic Emperor's
bodyguard
. They became affiliated with the
Republica Galactica
in the second draft.
Later, when composing background information for licensees in
1977
,
George Lucas
described the Jedi Order as being "several hundred thousand" strong before the Purge.
Prequel trilogy and
The Clone Wars
Ahead of release, George Lucas claimed that
The Phantom Menace
depicted "the heyday of the Jedi," during which time there were thousands of Jedi and they acted as the "guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, sort of like the old marshals out West."
Lucas felt he needed "to establish Jedi as what they were, which is sort of peacekeepers who moved through the galaxy to settle disputes."
He described the Jedi as "warrior-monks who keep peace in the universe without resorting to violence."
In the overall story of
Star Wars
, however,
The Phantom Menace
kicks off the
prequel trilogy
, which depicts the downfall of the Jedi Order.
Within
Star Wars
Legends
and canon, the prequel era overall represents a time in which the Jedi were losing their way,
with Episode II supporting that by featuring Yoda reflect on the increasing arrogance of even elder Jedi.
The Jedi Order accepts a place of military leadership during the Clone Wars
Rather than being "superheroes," Lucas noted how the Jedi Knights brought peace into the galaxy by "being ambassadors and trouble-shooters," who had the "moral authority" to keep the governments of the planets from becoming tyrannical or start wars. In that capacity, he said they had the power to "send the whole force of the Republic, which is 100,000 systems, so if you don't behave they can bring you up in front of the Senate" to "cut you off at the knees, politically."
However, Episode II depicts the Jedi compromising their morals by taking up a military position in the newly formed Republic Military,
challenging the Order's philosophy of peacekeeping.
As acknowledged by Lucas, such means the audience couldn't see much of how Jedi Knights were supposed to operate, as the story quickly becomes the story of the Clone Wars.
As Lucas explained, "It's one of the conundrums of which there's a bunch of in my movies. You have to think it through. Are they going to stick with their moral rules and all be killed, which makes it irrelevant, or do they help save the Republic? They have good intentions, but they have been manipulated which was their downfall."
The
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
animated series produced under Lucas continued to study the themes of the Jedi Order and the road to its downfall.
The Clone Wars
Supervising director
Dave Filoni
once noted that, in his mind at least, one of the story elements of the prequels was showing how the Jedi "almost forgot to care" and "[lacked] compassion" for Anakin Skywalker's situation, which leads to his fall to the dark side
and the destruction of their Order.
Filoni also pointed to Yoda's quote about Jedi arrogance in
Attack of the Clones
, saying Yoda “criticizes the Jedi in Episode II and says that they’ve become arrogant” and that “because they’ve become arrogant and very sure of themselves” they lack love and compassion.
Lucas, however, has said that Yoda was simply reminding Obi-Wan Kenobi that "arrogance exists in the older Jedi too, which is a way of warning Obi-Wan that he may be suffering the same hubris [as Anakin]."
Lucas also once stated that some people "didn't seem to understand the fact that Anakin is simply greedy"
as the Jedi are "trained more than anything else to understand the transitional nature of life, that things are constantly changing and you can’t hold on to anything. You can love things but you can't be attached to them," which allows one to be "compassionate and loving and caring, but not be possessive and grabbing and holding on to things and trying to keep things the way they are."
Anakin's issues are stemming not from some kind of failure of the Jedi, but from the fact that he started his training late in life, since if he would've been raised by the Jedi from a very early age, "he’d have been trained to love people but not to become attached to them."
Sequel trilogy
Luke Skywalker's new generation of Jedi was first mentioned in the
2015
film
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
,
along with the film's
novelization
and
junior novelization
.
Further background details about the Jedi and their massacre, which saw the end of Luke's students, can be found in the reference book
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
by
Pablo Hidalgo
.
On the contrary to what happened in the final films, George Lucas planned the Jedi Order to be restored by Luke Skywalker, who raised a new generation of Knights with the help of the surviving Jedi masters.
Even then, however, Lucas's own plans for the sequel trilogy would have featured Skywalker in a dark state of mind, something of "a
Colonel Kurtz
type."
The High Republic
"
I think when people think about
The High Republic
down the road, they'll think about the Jedi. We've seen so many stories in
Star Wars
set during an era when they were in decline, or essentially gone, or bravely trying to rebuild themselves from almost nothing.
The High Republic
, at its heart, is an attempt to show an Order, and a Republic, at their strongest point. We've been hearing about what the Jedi meant to the galaxy for a thousand generations—we wanted to show it, and I think we succeeded.
"
―Charles Soule
Writer
Cavan Scott
explained a theme of the
Star Wars: The High Republic
is seeing the Jedi live out amongst local communities, instead of being, comparatively, "locked away in their temples.
Charles Soule
also explained, "The thing to know about The High Republic's Jedi is that the rules that exist in the prequel trilogy still exists. They still take the same vows, they still have the same feelings about it, but their understanding of the strength of the Order and flexibility within the Order and the interpretation of those rules ... they're more diffuse, I would say."
According to actor
Charlie Barnett
, the High Republic Era-set series
Star Wars: The Acolyte
explores the theme of the Jedi Order having an ego due to it being their golden age, at which the Order was at its height. According to Barnett, this ego began to take control of the Jedi during the time of
The Acolyte
, paving the way for the Order's downfall.
Appearances
Star Wars: Force Arena
Star Wars: Galactic Defense
"
The Queen's Bloom
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Convergence
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Quest for the Hidden City
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Path of Deceit
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi
The High Republic — The Blade
1
The High Republic — The Blade
2
The High Republic — The Blade
3
The High Republic — The Blade
4
"
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
" —
Star Wars Insider
215
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
)
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 1
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 2
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 3
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 4
The High Republic: The Battle of Jedha
The High Republic: The Battle of Jedha
script
"
Tales of Enlightenment: The Unusual Suspect
" —
Star Wars Insider
216
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Peace and Unity
" —
The High Republic
(2022) 1
The High Republic
(2022) 1
The High Republic
(2022) 2
The High Republic
(2022) 3
The High Republic
(2022) 4
"
Tales of Enlightenment: No Such Thing as a Bad Customer
" —
Star Wars Insider
217
–
218
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
)
The High Republic
(2022) 5
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 5
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 6
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 7
The High Republic Adventures
(2022) 8
The High Republic
(2022) 6
The High Republic
(2022) 7
The High Republic
(2022) 8
The High Republic
(2022) 9
The High Republic: Path of Vengeance
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic
(2022) 10
The High Republic: Cataclysm
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Quest for Planet X
(and
audiobook
)
"
Tales of Enlightenment: Last Orders
" —
Star Wars Insider
219
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
)
"
Tales of Enlightenment: Missing Pieces
" —
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
"
A Closed Fist Has No Claws
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – Pathfinders
2
"
First Mission
" —
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
"
What a Jedi Makes
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
Set For Life
" —
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Young Jedi
"
Young Jedi Adventures: The Young Jedi
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Yoda's Mission
"
Young Jedi Adventures: Yoda's Mission
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Meet the Young Jedi
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Lys' Creature Caper
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Nubs and the Flower Fiasco
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Nash's Firehawk Frenzy
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Taborr's Pirate Showdown
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Nash's Race Day
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Kai's Daring Droid Rescue
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Lost Jedi Ship
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Get Well Nubs
"
Get Well, Nubs!
Little Golden Book
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Junk Giant
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Lys and the Snowy Mountain Rescue
"
Snowy Mountain Rescue
Little Golden Book
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Attack of the Training Droids
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Jellyfruit Pursuit
"
The Jellyfruit Pursuit
Little Golden Book
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Creature Safari
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Squadron
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Forest Defenders
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Jedi and the Thief
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Missing Kibbin
"
Young Jedi Adventures: Jedi Training
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures: Galactic Training
on
DisneyNOW
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Girl and Her Gargantua
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Show Must Go On
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Princess and the Jedi
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Kai's Bad Day
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Visitor's Day
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Growing Green Danger
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Ganguls
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Bad Eggs
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Off the Rails
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Thieves of Tharnaka
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Tree Troubles
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Big Brother's Bounty
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Charhound Chase
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Creature Comforts
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
An Adventure with Yoda
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Talon Takeover
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Mystery of the Opal Cave
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Clash
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Stuck in the Muck
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Junkyard Sleepover
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Great Leaf Glide
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Harvest Feast
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Life Day
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Raxlo Strikes Back
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Aftershock
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Feather Frenzy
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Best Friends
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Happy Trails, Nubs
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Tale of Short Spire
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Team Up
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Caves of Batuu
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Finders Keepers
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Starship Show
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Nash's Super Busy Day
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Prince and the Pirate
"
"
¡Que Empiece el Entrenamiento!
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
Una Nueva Perspectiva
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
Pord Recibe una Lección
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
La Visita del Maestro Yoda
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
Entrenando Con Remotos
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
La Carrera Contra Taborr
" —
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
"
Sky Parade Rescue
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024: All Ages
The High Republic: Into the Dark
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Light of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: The Great Jedi Rescue
(and
audiobook
)
"
Starlight: Go Together
" —
Star Wars Insider
199
–
200
"
Tales of Villainy: The
Gaze Electric
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 6
(Indirect mention only)
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 1
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 2
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance
, Vol. 1
The High Republic: A Test of Courage
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic
(2021) 1
Star Wars: Fun with Nubs
— "
Nubs Loses his Lightsaber
"
Star Wars: Fun with Nubs
— "
Nubs Cleans Up
"
Star Wars: Fun with Nubs
— "
Nubs Tries to Meditate
"
Star Wars: Fun with Nubs
— "
Nubs Gardens
"
Star Wars: Fun with Nubs
— "
Nubs and RJ Dance
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Heroes and Hotshots
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
A Jedi or a Pirate
"
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
The Rustler Roundup
"
"
Scavenger Hunt
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025: All Ages
"
The Trees of Kashyyyk
" —
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures—The Training Sessions
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures
— "
Unmasked
"
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 3
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 4
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 5
"
Starlight: First Duty
" —
Star Wars Insider
201
–
202
The High Republic
(2021) 2
The High Republic
(2021) 3
The High Republic
(2021) 4
The High Republic
(2021) 5
"
A Coruscant Solstice
" —
Life Day Treasury
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 6
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 7
"
Starlight: Hidden Danger
" —
Star Wars Insider
203
–
204
The High Republic
(2021) 6
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
2
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
3
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
4
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic: The Rising Storm
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic
(2021) 7
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Showdown at the Fair
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures
Free Comic Book Day 2021
The High Republic
(2021) 8
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
1
"
Deck the Halls
" —
Life Day
1
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 8
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 9
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 10
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance
, Vol. 2
The High Republic: Out of the Shadows
(and
audiobook
)
"
Starlight: Past Mistakes
" —
Star Wars Insider
205
–
206
The High Republic: Tempest Runner
(In flashback(s))
"
The Lonely Traveler is Home
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
2
The High Republic
(2021) 9
The High Republic
(2021) 10
The High Republic
(2021) 11
"
The Haul
" —
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures: Galactic Bake-Off Spectacular
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
3
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 11
"
Tales of Villainy: A Very Nihil Interlude
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 14
(Indirect mention only)
The High Republic: Mission to Disaster
(and
audiobook
)
"
Starlight: Shadows Remain
" —
Star Wars Insider
207
–
208
The High Republic: Midnight Horizon
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 12
The High Republic: The Battle for Starlight
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: The Fallen Star
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic
(2021) 12
The High Republic
(2021) 13
The High Republic
(2021) 14
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 13
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
4
The High Republic
(2021) 15
"
Starlight Coda
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2023: All Ages
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
5
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
4
(Mentioned only)
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
1
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
2
"
After the Fall
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
3
"
The Call of Coruscant
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic: Eye of the Storm
1
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic: Eye of the Storm
2
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
1
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
2
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
3
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
4
(In flashback(s))
"
The Force Provides
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
"
All Jedi Walk Their Own Path
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
"
Light in the Darkness
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
"
Rogue Element
" —
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
"
All the Republic
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
The High Republic: Escape from Valo
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: The Eye of Darkness
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 1
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 2
The High Republic Adventures: Crash Landing
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 3
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 4
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 5
"
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: No Big Deal
" —
Star Wars Insider
222
(Mentioned only)
"
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Friend or Foe?
" —
Star Wars Insider
223
(Indirect mention only)
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 6
The High Republic: Defy the Storm
(and
audiobook
)
"
Chronicles of Corellia: Heir Apparent
" —
Star Wars Insider
227
(Mentioned only)
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 7
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 8
The High Republic Adventures: Crash and Burn
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 9
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 10
"
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Family Ties
" —
Star Wars Insider
226
(Mentioned only)
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic
(2023) 1
The High Republic
(2023) 2
The High Republic
(2023) 3
The High Republic
(2023) 4
The High Republic
(2023) 5
The High Republic
(2023) 6
The High Republic
(2023) 7
The High Republic
(2023) 8
The High Republic
(2023) 9
The High Republic
(2023) 10
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Beware the Nameless
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
1
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
2
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
3
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
4
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
1
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
2
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
3
(as toy)
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
4
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance
, Vol. 3
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance
, Vol. 4
The High Republic: Seeds of Starlight
The High Republic: Haunted Starlight
The High Republic: Tempest Breaker
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic: Tempest Breaker
script
(In flashback(s))
"
Three Younglings & the Snackfrog of Doom
" —
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
"
Heart to Heart
" —
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
(In flashback(s))
"
The Adventures of Churo the Hutt and the Heart of Eroudac
" —
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
"
Brothers and Sisters
" —
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
(Mentioned only)
"
Stellan's Wisdom
" —
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
Star Wars Eclipse
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 11
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
1
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
2
(In flashback(s))
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 12
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 13
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
3
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
4
The High Republic: Into the Light
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic: Trials of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Wedding Spectacular
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 14
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 15
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Battle of Eriadu
The High Republic – Fear of the Jedi
1
The High Republic – Fear of the Jedi
2
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 16
The High Republic – Fear of the Jedi
3
The High Republic – Fear of the Jedi
4
The High Republic – Fear of the Jedi
5
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 17
The High Republic: A Valiant Vow
(and
audiobook
)
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 18
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 19
The High Republic Adventures
(2023) 20
The High Republic – The Finale
1
The Vow of Silver Dawn
The Acolyte: Wayseeker
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Choice
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Destiny
"
The Acolyte: The Crystal Crown
(and
audiobook
)
The Acolyte - Kelnacca
1
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Lost / Found
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Revenge / Justice
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Day
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Night
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Teach / Corrupt
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
The Acolyte
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Justice
"
"
Showdown at Ocean's Deep
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
Mace Windu
1
Mace Windu
2
Mace Windu
3
Mace Windu
4
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Choices
"
Padawan
(and
audiobook
)
"
Life Day
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 3
"
Life Day Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 4
Hyperspace Stories: Qui-Gon
Master & Apprentice
(and
audiobook
)
"
Resolve
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Jedi Knights
1
Jedi Knights
2
"
The Moon of Death
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
Jedi Knights
3
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Knights
4
Jedi Knights
5
Jedi Knights
6
Jedi Knights
7
Jedi Knights
8
Jedi Knights
9
Jedi Knights
10
Age of Republic - Qui-Gon Jinn
1
"
The Weapon
" —
Age of Republic Special
1
The Living Force
(and
audiobook
)
Darth Maul
(2017) 1
Darth Maul
(2017) 2
Darth Maul
(2017) 3
Darth Maul
(2017) 4
Darth Maul
(2017) 5
Jango Fett
1
(Mentioned only)
Age of Republic - Darth Maul
1
(In flashback(s))
Queen's Peril
(and
audiobook
)
The Phantom Menace
25th Anniversary Special 1
Star Wars
: Episode I
The Phantom Menace
The Phantom Menace
Read-Along Storybook and CD
Star Wars Journeys: The Phantom Menace
Star Wars Journeys: Beginnings
Star Wars Battlefront II
"
Short Negotiations
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Escaping Naboo
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Path of a Podracer
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
A Different Path
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Droid Attack!
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Final Fight
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
The Sith Lord
"
Mace Windu: The Glass Abyss
(and
audiobook
)
Age of Republic - Obi-Wan Kenobi
1
Obi-Wan and Anakin
1
Obi-Wan and Anakin
2
Obi-Wan and Anakin
3
Obi-Wan and Anakin
4
Obi-Wan and Anakin
5
Tales From the Nightlands
1
Queen's Shadow
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Lesson (Obi-Wan & Anakin)
" —
Star Wars
(2020) 25
Age of Republic - Count Dooku
1
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Hyperspace Stories—Tides of Terror
1
Hyperspace Stories—Tides of Terror
2
Hyperspace Stories—Tides of Terror
3
Hyperspace Stories—Tides of Terror
4
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 1
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 2
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 3
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 4
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 5
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 6
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 7
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 8
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 9
"
Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge
— "
Episode 10
"
Dooku: Jedi Lost
(Voice only)
Dooku: Jedi Lost
script
(Voice only)
Star Wars
: Episode II
Attack of the Clones
"
Ambushed!
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Galactic Tales: Inheritance
" —
Star Wars Insider
211
(Appears in hologram)
"
The Secret Army
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Anakin's Vow
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
A Deadly Plot
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade
(and
audiobook
)
"
Into the Arena
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Brink of War
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Yoda vs Count Dooku – Size Matters Not
"
Queen's Hope
(and
audiobook
)
Jar Jar
1
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
1
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
2
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
3
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
4
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
5
Star Wars: My First Comic Reader
1
Brotherhood
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Eye of the Beholder
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Failing of the Light
" —
Star Wars Insider
233
(Mentioned only)
Hyperspace Stories
11
Hyperspace Stories
1
Hyperspace Stories
5
"
501 Plus One
" —
Age of Republic Special
1
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
1
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
2
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
3
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
5
Age of Republic - Anakin Skywalker
1
"
Galactic Tales: Saber Truth
" —
Star Wars Insider
210
"
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
" —
Star Wars Insider
212
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Cat and Mouse
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Hidden Enemy
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
film
(First identified as Order of the Jedi)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Clone Cadets
"
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Practice Makes Perfect
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Supply Lines
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Ambush
"
"
Sharing the Same Face
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Rising
Malevolence
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Shadow of
Malevolence
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Destroy
Malevolence
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Rookies
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Downfall of a Droid
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Duel of the Droids
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Bombad Jedi
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Cloak of Darkness
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Lair of Grievous
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Dooku Captured
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Gungan General
"
"
Dooku Captured
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
"
Separation Anxiety Part One
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 9
"
Separation Anxiety, Part Two
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 10
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Jedi Crash
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Defenders of Peace
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Trespass
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Blue Shadow Virus
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Mystery of a Thousand Moons
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Storm Over Ryloth
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Innocents of Ryloth
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Liberty on Ryloth
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Holocron Heist
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Cargo of Doom
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Children of the Force
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Bounty Hunters
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Zillo Beast
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Zillo Beast Strikes Back
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Senate Spy
"
"
A Jedi's Duty
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Landing at Point Rain
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Weapons Factory
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Legacy of Terror
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Brain Invaders
"
"
Worthless
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Grievous Intrigue
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Deserter
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Lightsaber Lost
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Mandalore Plot
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Voyage of Temptation
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Duchess of Mandalore
"
Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Death Trap
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
R2 Come Home
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Lethal Trackdown
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Corruption
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Academy
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Assassin
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
ARC Troopers
"
Hyperspace Stories
10
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
1
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
3
(Indirect mention only)
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
5
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sphere of Influence
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Evil Plans
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Hostage Crisis
"
"
Hostage Crisis
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
"
Intermission, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 12
"
Intermission, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 13
"
Tales of Villainy: Give & Take
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 12
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Hunt for Ziro
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Teach You, I Will
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Unexpected Company
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Imposter Inside
"
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
(and
audiobook
)
Forces of Destiny—Ahsoka & Padmé
"
The Incident, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 5
"
The Incident, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 6
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Starfighter Stunt
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Padawan Path
"
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Heroes on Both Sides
"
"
Pursuit of Peace
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Senate Murders
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Nightsisters
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Monster
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Witches of the Mist
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Overlords
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Altar of Mortis
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Ghosts of Mortis
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Citadel
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Counterattack
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Citadel Rescue
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Padawan Lost
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Wookiee Hunt
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Water War
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Gungan Attack
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Prisoners
"
"
Ghosts of the Machine
" —
Tales from the Rancor Pit
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Shadow Warrior
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Mercy Mission
"
(Appears in hologram)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Nomad Droids
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Darkness on Umbara
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The General
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Plan of Dissent
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Carnage of Krell
"
"
The Shadow of Umbara
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
"
Roger Roger
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 19
"
Hide and Seek
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 20
Age of Republic - General Grievous
1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Kidnapped
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Slaves of the Republic
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Escape from Kadavo
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Friend in Need
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Deception
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Friends and Enemies
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Box
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Crisis on Naboo
"
"
Bane's Story
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Brothers
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Revenge
"
"
Dark Vengeance
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A War on Two Fronts
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Front Runners
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Soft War
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Tipping Points
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Gathering
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Test of Strength
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Bound for Rescue
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Necessary Bond
"
"
Almost a Jedi
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Secret Weapons
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Sunny Day in the Void
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Point of No Return
"
"
The Dark Mirror
" —
Dark Legends
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Revival
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Eminence
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Shades of Reason
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Lawless
"
"
Kenobi's Shadow
" —
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sabotage
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Jedi Who Knew Too Much
"
"
Sisters
" —
Age of Republic Special
1
(Appears on screen)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
To Catch a Jedi
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Wrong Jedi
"
Kanan
7
Kanan
8
Kanan
9
Kanan
10
Kanan
11
Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising
(and
audiobook
)
(Voice only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Unknown
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Conspiracy
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Fugitive
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Orders
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
An Old Friend
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Rise of Clovis
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Crisis at the Heart
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Disappeared, Part I
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Disappeared, Part II
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Lost One
"
"
Kindred Spirits
" —
Star Wars Insider
159
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Voices
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Destiny
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sacrifice
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Death on Utapau
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
In Search of the Crystal
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Crystal Crisis
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Big Bang
"
Hyperspace Stories
9
Dark Disciple
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Tales of the Underworld
— "
A Way Forward
"
Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir
1
(Mentioned only)
Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir
3
Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir
4
(Mentioned only)
Age of Republic - Padmé Amidala
1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Gone with a Trace
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Deal No Deal
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Together Again
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Bad Batch
"
The Clone Wars: Season 7: Volume 1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Distant Echo
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
On the Wings of Keeradaks
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Unfinished Business
"
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Old Friends Not Forgotten
"
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
"
The Duel with Dooku
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Phantom Apprentice
"
(Appears in hologram)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Shattered
"
(Appears in hologram)
"
The Cyborg and the Jedi
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Driven to the Dark Side
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Empire Ascendant
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Aftermath
"
Kanan
2
Kanan
3
(Mentioned only)
"
The Rule of Two
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Darth Vader Rises
" —
The Prequel Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Darth Vader
(2017) 1
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
Devoted
"
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 2
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 3
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 4
(Mentioned only)
Master of Evil
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 6
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 7
(Emblem only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Rampage
"
(Indirect mention only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 8
(Emblem only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 9
(Emblem only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 10
(Emblem only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 11
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Darth Vader
(2017) 12
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Battle Scars
"
(Indirect mention only)
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears in hologram)
Sanctuary: A Bad Batch Novel
(Appears on mural)
Kanan
4
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 13
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Darth Vader
(2017) 14
(Appears in hologram)
Darth Vader
(2017) 16
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2017) 17
(Emblem only)
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader Annual
2
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Ahsoka
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
Adventures in Wild Space: The Escape
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Snare
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Nest
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Dark
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Adventures in Wild Space: The Rescue
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
Realization
"
(Mentioned only)
"
Galactic Tales: A Death in Elderblock 26-0640
" —
Star Wars Insider
236
(Appears in hologram)
"
So Much More
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2019
(Appears through imagination)
Thrawn
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Thrawn
1
(In flashback(s))
Lords of the Sith
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
Orientation
" —
Star Wars Insider
157
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
and
Lords of the Sith
)
(Mentioned only)
Tarkin
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 18
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
1
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
2
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
3
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
4
(In flashback(s))
Jedi Fallen Order - Dark Temple
5
(In flashback(s))
Rebel Rising
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Jedi: Battle Scars
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 25
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Inquisitors
1
(Mentioned only)
Inquisitors
2
(In flashback(s))
Inquisitors
3
(Mentioned only)
Inquisitors
4
(In flashback(s))
A New Dawn
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo - From Smuggler to General
"
"
The Ghosts of Maul
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
(Vision to Maul)
"
The End of History
" —
Star Wars Insider
154
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part I
"
(In flashback(s))
Obi-Wan Kenobi
1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part III
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part V
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part VI
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2015) 7
(Mentioned only)
Han Solo & Chewbacca
5
(Variant cover only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Spark of Rebellion
"
(Mentioned only)
The Rebellion Begins
(Mentioned only)
Ezra's Wookiee Rescue
(Mentioned only)
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rise of the Old Masters
"
(In flashback(s))
The Inquisitor's Trap
Kanan
1
Kanan
12
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Kanan's Jedi Training
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Call to Action
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fire Across the Galaxy
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Future of the Force
"
(Mentioned only)
Leia Organa: Ordeal of the Princess
(In flashback(s))
"
Ice Breaking
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
16
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Shroud of Darkness
"
(Vision)
Age of Rebellion - Darth Vader
1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Trials of the Darksaber
"
(In flashback(s))
Thrawn: Alliances
(and
audiobook
)
Thrawn: Alliances
1
(In flashback(s))
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Thrawn: Treason
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
— "
The Way Out
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
2
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
4
(In flashback(s))
Obi-Wan
1
(In flashback(s))
Obi-Wan
2
(In flashback(s))
Obi-Wan
3
(In flashback(s))
Obi-Wan
4
(In flashback(s))
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
(First mentioned)
(Indirect mention only)
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: A New Hope
junior novelization
(Indirect mention only)
A New Hope
Read-Along Storybook and CD
(Indirect mention only)
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
The Rise of a Hero
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
"
Stories in the Sand
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears in hologram)
"
The Hero's Journey Begins
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Obi-Wan Kenobi
"
(In flashback(s))
"
Master and Apprentice
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
We Don't Serve Their Kind Here
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia – The Rescue
"
Lando
3
(Mentioned only)
Lando
4
(Mentioned only)
Lando
5
(Mentioned only)
Heir to the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 2
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
(2015) 4
(Indirect mention only)
Doctor Aphra: An Audiobook Original
(Indirect mention only)
Darth Vader
(2015) 4
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2015) 6
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2015) 9
(Appears in holocron)
Star Wars
(2015) 10
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 26
Star Wars
(2015) 27
Star Wars
(2015) 28
Star Wars
(2015) 29
Star Wars
(2015) 30
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 2
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 4
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 5
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 6
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 9
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 12
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
(2015) 43
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
(2015) 58
(Mentioned only)
"
Tales of Villainy: A Last Chapter
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 13
(as a statue)
Yoda
1
Yoda
2
Yoda
3
Yoda
4
Yoda
5
Yoda
6
Yoda
7
Yoda
8
Yoda
9
Yoda
10
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
(First appearance)
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
junior novelization
"
Rogue Two
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
The Trial of Dagobah
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker Trains with Master Yoda
"
"
Faith in an Old Friend
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears on screen)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Yoda – The Jedi Master
"
"
Disturbance
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Path Ahead
"
"
Vergence
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Boba Fett - The Bounty Hunter
"
Captured on Cloud City
"
The Witness
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Clash on Cloud City
"
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
"
Darth Vader
(2020) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 1
Star Wars
(2020) 2
"
Right-Hand Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars
(2020) 3
Star Wars
(2020) 4
Star Wars
(2020) 5
Star Wars
(2020) 6
Darth Vader
(2020) 2
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 3
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 5
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 6
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 7
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 8
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 10
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 11
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Star Wars
(2020) 8
Star Wars
(2020) 9
Star Wars
(2020) 10
(Cover only)
Star Wars
(2020) 13
War of the Bounty Hunters
1
Star Wars
(2020) 14
Darth Vader
(2020) 12
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 15
Darth Vader
(2020) 13
(In flashback(s))
War of the Bounty Hunters
2
(Voice only)
War of the Bounty Hunters
3
Star Wars
(2020) 16
Darth Vader
(2020) 16
War of the Bounty Hunters
4
Star Wars
(2020) 17
War of the Bounty Hunters
5
Darth Vader
(2020) 17
Crimson Reign
1
(Voice only)
Star Wars
(2020) 19
Star Wars
(2020) 20
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 16
(Mentioned only)
Crimson Reign
2
(Sculpture only)
Crimson Reign
3
(In flashback(s))
Crimson Reign
4
(Indirect mention only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 18
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 19
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 20
(Appears in hologram)
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 23
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 24
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 26
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 28
(Sculpture only)
Star Wars Outlaws
(Mentioned only)
(
A Pirate's Fortune
DLC
)
Star Wars
(2020) 26
Star Wars
(2020) 27
Star Wars
(2020) 28
Hidden Empire
1
Revelations
(2022) 1
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Hidden Empire
2
Hidden Empire
3
Hidden Empire
5
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 31
Star Wars
(2020) 29
Star Wars
(2020) 30
Star Wars
(2020) 31
Star Wars
(2020) 32
Star Wars
(2020) 33
Darth Vader
(2020) 32
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 33
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 34
(Vision to Sabé)
Darth Vader
(2020) 35
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 32
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 33
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 34
Star Wars
(2020) 34
Star Wars
(2020) 35
"
Return to Echo Base
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
"
The Book of Ajax
" —
Dark Droids: D-Squad
1
(In flashback(s))
Dark Droids
1
Dark Droids
2
Bounty Hunters
37
(Indirect mention only)
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
38
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 37
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 38
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 39
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 40
Dark Droids
5
Star Wars
(2020) 41
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 40
Star Wars
(2020) 42
Star Wars
(2020) 43
Star Wars
(2020) 44
"
A Trick of the Mind
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 45
Star Wars
(2020) 46
Star Wars
(2020) 47
Star Wars
(2020) 48
Star Wars
(2020) 49
Darth Vader
(2020) 45
(In flashback(s))
"
The Curse
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
(Appears in hallucination)
Darth Vader
(2020) 47
Darth Vader
(2020) 48
Darth Vader
(2020) 49
Darth Vader
(2020) 50
Bounty Hunters
42
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Hyperspace Stories
12
Tales From the Nightlands
2
Tales from the Rancor Pit
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
Star Wars: Return of the Jedi
junior novelization
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
(and
audiobook
)
Rescue from Jabba's Palace
"
Fancy Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Chronicler
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
TIE Fighter
4
(Indirect mention only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Masters
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Ewoks Join the Fight
"
The Emperor's Red Guards
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
"
Shattered Empire
1
"
Brotherhood
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Veteran
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
1
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Traps and Tribulations
"
The Princess and the Scoundrel
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Max Rebo
1
(In flashback(s))
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
2
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
3
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
4
Alphabet Squadron
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
1
(In dream)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
3
(In dream)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
5
(Appears as a ghost or spirit)
Shattered Empire
4
Shadow Fall: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
1
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
2
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
3
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
4
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
1
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
2
Aftermath: Empire's End
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
3
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
4
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
1
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
2
"
Past is Prologue
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
Star Wars
(2025) 1
Star Wars
(2025) 2
Star Wars
(2025) 3
Star Wars
(2025) 4
Star Wars
(2025) 5
Star Wars
(2025) 6
Star Wars
(2025) 7
Star Wars
(2025) 8
Star Wars
(2025) 9
Star Wars
(2025) 10
Hyperspace Stories Annual—Jaxxon 2023
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The Mandalorian
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 8: Redemption
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
8
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
The Mandalorian: The Path of the Force
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 11: The Heiress
"
(Indirect mention only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
3
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 13: The Jedi
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 16: The Rescue
"
The Mandalorian: The Rescue
The Book of Boba Fett
Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
"
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 20: The Foundling
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 22: Guns for Hire
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part One: Master and Apprentice
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Three: Time to Fly
"
(Mentioned only)
Ahsoka
3
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Four: Fallen Jedi
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Five: Shadow Warrior
"
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Six: Far, Far Away
"
(Mentioned only)
Shadow of the Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars
(2020) 50
Bloodline
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
The Rise of Kylo Ren
1
The Rise of Kylo Ren
2
The Rise of Kylo Ren
3
The Rise of Kylo Ren
4
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
1
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
"
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
"
(reprinted in
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
)
(Mentioned only)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
5
(Appears in dream)
Force Collector
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears in hologram)
Age of Resistance - Kylo Ren
1
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Graphic Novel Adaptation
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens Adaptation
3
(Mentioned only)
Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire
(and
audiobook
)
(Emblem only)
Star Wars Adventures
Ashcan
(In flashback(s))
"
The Wine in Dreams
" —
Canto Bight
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
1
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi: Rey's Journey
(Emblem only)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
3
(In flashback(s))
The Last Jedi Adaptation
4
(In flashback(s))
The Last Jedi Adaptation
5
(Mentioned only)
"
Life Lessons
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 26
Legacy of Vader
1
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
2
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
3
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
4
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
6
(Mentioned only)
Legacy of Vader
7
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
9
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
10
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Legacy of Vader
11
(Mentioned only)
Legacy of Vader
12
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Poe Dameron
26
Poe Dameron
27
Poe Dameron
28
Resistance Reborn
(and
audiobook
)
"
Through the Turbulence
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
Path of the Lightsaber
, Vol. 1
(Appears in hologram)
Allegiance
1
Allegiance
2
Allegiance
3
Allegiance
4
Spark of the Resistance
(and
audiobook
)
Galaxy's Edge
2
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
: Galaxy's Edge
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
(In flashback(s))
Halcyon Legacy
1
(In flashback(s))
Halcyon Legacy
3
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
: Galactic Starcruiser
"
See You Around, Kid
" —
Star Wars
(2020) 25
(as a statue)
"
Squad Goals
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 31
"
The Obstacle Course, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 1
"
The Obstacle Course, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 2
"
Repair Stop
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 13
"
Repair Stop, Part II
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 14
Hyperspace Stories
3
Hyperspace Stories
4
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
1
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
2
"
Tales from Wild Space: Stop, Thief!
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 1
"
Tales from Wild Space: A Small Push
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 12
"
Tales from Wild Space: The Journey
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 20
(In flashback(s))
"
The Lost Stories, Part 3
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 32
(Picture only)
Tales From the Nightlands
3
The Jaws of Jakku
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
: Episode IX
The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
The Rise of Skywalker Adaptation
1
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Graphic Novel Adaptation
"
Return of the Whills
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes
(Non-
canonical
appearance)
Non-canon appearances
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Exit from Endor
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Crisis on Coruscant
"
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
(In flashback(s))
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A Hero Discovered
"
(Appears in holocron)
LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Trials on Tatooine
(Mentioned only in opening crawl)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Pit and the Pinnacle
"
(Emblem only)
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
The Chase with Han
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
Escape with Chewbacca
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
All I Want For Life Day
"
"
The Dragonsnake Saves R2-D2
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Visions
— "
Tatooine Rhapsody
"
Star Wars: Visions
— "
The Elder
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga
"
The Elder
" —
Big Gangan
Vol.06
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Happy Celebration 45th Anniversary
A New Hope
"
"
Lop & Ochō
" —
Big Gangan
Vol.07
(Emblem only)
"
The Ninth Jedi
" —
Big Gangan
Vol.08
"
Skating in the Rain
" —
LEGO Star Wars
95
Star Wars: Visions
— "
Journey to the Dark Head
"
"
The Temple Ambush
" —
LEGO Star Wars
108
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Fett's Flying Lesson
"
Sources
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Darth Bane
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
dwarf spider droid
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Ilum
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Jedi Order
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Jedi starfighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Jedi T-6 shuttle
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Jedi Temple
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Jedi Temple Guard
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Lightsaber
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
lightsaber crystals
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Lux Bonteri
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Separatist Alliance
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Sith
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Star Wars Rebels: The Visual Guide
Star Wars Rebels Extended Trailer (Official)
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
SDCC 2014: "The Heroes of
Star Wars Rebels
" Panel - Liveblog
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Databank A-Z: Alzoc III–Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: Barada–Depa Billaba
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Databank A-Z: B1 Battle Droid–Bantha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Helmets: Luke Skywalker — X-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Helmets: Scout Trooper
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
"Path of the Jedi" Episode Guide | Star Wars Rebels
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Rebels Recon
#1.09: Inside "Path of the Jedi" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Chewbacca–Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Databank A-Z: Cosians–Dagobah
Sabine My Rebel Sketchbook
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Databank A-Z: 'Occupier' Tank–Oola
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Helmets: Jango Fett
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Databank A-Z: Dooku–Dwarf Spider Droids
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Aayla Secura - Jedi Knight
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Adi Gallia - Jedi Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Anakin Skywalker - Padawan
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Barriss Offee - Jedi Padawan
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Count Dooku - Separatist Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Sidious - Sith Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jocasta Nu - Jedi Archivist
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker - Jedi Knight
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Luminara Unduli - Galactic Republic
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Mace Windu - Jedi Council
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Mace Windu - Jedi Master (ROTS)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Plo Koon - Jedi Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Stass Allie - Jedi Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine - Galactic Republic
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Yarael Poof - Jedi Master
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Yoda - Jedi Council
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Yoda - Jedi Master (ESB)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Coruscant
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Databank A-Z: Moraband–Muftak
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Jedi Knights
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Anakin Skywalker
Helmets: Anakin Skywalker Podracer
Ultimate Star Wars
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Pilot
Databank A-Z: Poe Dameron–Delta 7-B
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Databank A-Z: Hassk Triplets–Holograms
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: MagnaGuard
Databank A-Z: The HoloNet–General Hux
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tusken Raider
Databank A-Z: Rush Clovis–Coruscant
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Gree
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Jelucan–Lord Junn
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Senate Guard
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Sith
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Databank A-Z: Admiral Kilian–Kowakian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Highlights of the Saga: The Unlikely Heroes
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Weapons & Uniforms: The Republic Fleet
The Art of Star Wars: Uprising
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Databank A-Z: Kel Dor–Ki-Adi-Mundi
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Databank A-Z: Luggabeast–Malakili
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Thire
Helmets: Commander Thire
Nexus of Power
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: First Order–Fyrnocks
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars Expert Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Databank A-Z: OOM-9–Viceroy Bail Organa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Zeb Orrelios–Pau City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Savage Spirits
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Weapons & Uniforms: The Lothal Rebels
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zuckuss
Databank A-Z: Admiral Yularen–Zarro
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Beginner Game
Forged in Battle
Star Wars: Aliens of the Galaxy
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Biggs Darklighter
Databank A-Z: Venator–Asajj Ventress
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Databank A-Z:
Soulless One
–Super Battle Droids
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Weapons & Uniforms: Dark Side Servants
Star Wars: Complete Locations
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Databank A-Z: Darth Vader
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Highlights of the Saga: The Darksaber
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Weapons & Uniforms: Mandalorians
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Databank A-Z: Luke Skywalker–Han Solo
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Poe Dameron: Flight Log
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Guavian Death Guard
Databank A-Z: Hera Syndulla–Ahsoka Tano
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Databank A-Z:
Providence
-class–Raxus
(First identified as New Jedi Order)
Princess Leia: Royal Rebel
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sidon Ithano
Databank A-Z: Darth Tyranus
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Databank A-Z:
Tantive IV
–Tatooine
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Abandon All Hope
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
All In
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Block
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kashyyyk Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: U'Il–Luminara Unduli
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
4
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
(Picture only)
No Disintegrations
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Ponds
Databank A-Z: Xev Xrexus–Yavin 4
Darth Vader: Sith Lord
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Tauntaun–TIE Craft
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Databank A-Z: Vulptex–Wampas
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Weapons & Uniforms: The Jedi Purge
Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Databank A-Z: Serenno–Anakin Skywalker
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Databank A-Z: Ziro the Hutt–Zygerria
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saesee Tiin–Toydaria
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Target: The Holy City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Databank A-Z: Zabrak–Zillo Beast
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Databank A-Z: Mace Windu
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Weapons & Uniforms: Training the Jedi
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Databank A-Z: Pre Vizsla–Quinlan Vos
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Databank A-Z: Grand Master Yoda
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Helmets: Silvanie Phest
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Créatures et peuples de la galaxie
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Star Wars: Lightsaber Battles
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Character: Darth Vader
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Character: Stormtroopers
Dawn of Rebellion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
(Picture only)
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Alien Archive
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars: Women of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
11
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide
Star Wars: The Dark Side
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
Jedi Knights
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Search and Find Volume I
Allies and Adversaries
TIE Fighter Owners' Workshop Manual
Rise of the Separatists
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Star Wars Timeline
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Collapse of the Republic
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Gadgets and Gear
Star Wars: Creatures Big & Small
(Emblem only)
Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Jedi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Mace Windu
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Qui-Gon Jinn
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Yoda
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#4: Ahsoka Tano
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#19: Depa Billaba
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#90: Tiplar
(backup link not available)
"Together Again" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Directing
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Legacy
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Cast
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Technology
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Practical
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Process
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Score
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Connections
"
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Mace Windu
"
Imperial Troops
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
(Picture only)
"
R2-D2
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Star Wars Book
Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Ahsoka Tano (TCW)
"
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Art of Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Season One
"
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
100
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of Season Two
"
"
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Jedi Knight Vernestra Rwoh: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
C-3PO
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Avar Kriss | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
The Nihil: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
:
A Deep Dive Into Star Wars: The High Republic, Bringing A Younger Yoda to Life (in VR), and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Jedi Padawan Bell Zettifar | Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
101
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base - Series 2
,
Card:
Cere Junda
"
Yoda and Other Users of the Force
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
202
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
:
New High Republic Comic Revealed, Lightsabers from the Prime of the Jedi, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
Anakin Skywalker
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of the Season 2 Finale
"
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Handbook
"
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
General Equipment (2)
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Photos and Details Revealed
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"
Crime and Punishment
" —
Star Wars Insider
209
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
The Book of Boba Fett
"
Clones
at 20 | 20 Unforgettable Quotes from
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Clones
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
Galaxy Map poster
(also
published on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The High Republic For Light and Life Panel | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
SWCA 2022: 10 Things We Learned From the
Star Wars: The High Republic
Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Story Behind Lucasfilm and Volkswagen's Fantastic
Obi-Wan Kenobi
-Inspired Vehicles
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
The Obi-Wan Cast Chat About Obi-Wan, Reva's Intentions Are Revealed, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
:
High Republic Phase II Deep Dive, Star Wars Celebration, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
New Concept Art and More Revealed on
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars 100 Objects
Star Wars: Timelines
Star Wars: Shatterpoint
—
Hello There Squad Pack
Star Wars: Shatterpoint
—
Hello There Squad Pack
(Card:
Form III Soresu
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Shatterpoint
—
Hello There Squad Pack
(Card:
Form IV Ataru
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Shatterpoint
—
Hello There Squad Pack
(Card: General Obi-Wan Kenobi (Order Card))
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Shatterpoint
—
Hello There Squad Pack
(Card:
General Obi-Wan Kenobi (Stat Card)
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars: The High Republic Show
:
The Fate of Burryaga Revealed, The High Republic Heads to San Diego Comic-Con, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
"
This is Obi-Wan
" —
Star Wars: Meet the Galactic Heroes
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
Mace Windu Will Finish Qui-Gon Jinn's Last Mission in
Star Wars: The Glass Abyss
- Exclusive Reveal
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
230
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
The High Republic Author Roundtable: "The End of the Beginning"
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
"
Long Live Luminous
" —
Star Wars Insider
232
The Art of Star Wars: Outlaws
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
Leia Organa and Rey Return in
Star Wars: Legacy
- Exclusive Interview
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"
Star Wars: The High Republic
Companion: Phase III: Trials of the Jedi
" —
Star Wars Insider
234
Star Wars Eras
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Visual Guide
Adi Gallia
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Kilian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Agen Kolar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Agent Del Meeko
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ahch-To
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ahch-To Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ahsoka Tano
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ahsoka's lightsabers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Amadeo Azzazzo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Anakin Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Anakin, Luke, and Rey's Lightsaber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bail Organa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bardotta
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Baron Boolan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Barriss Offee
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cere
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Coruscant
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cosian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Crucible
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dagan Gera
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dagobah
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darksaber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darth Bane
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darth Plagueis
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Delta-7 Jedi Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Depa Billaba
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dwarf Spider Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Eeth Koth
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Force Push
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ganodi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Gungi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Holocron
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ilum
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Inhibitor chip
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Order
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi T-6 Shuttle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Temple Guard
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jedi Texts
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kanan Jarrus/Caleb Dume
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Kyber Crystal (Lightsaber Crystal)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lightsaber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lor San Tekka
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lothal Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Luke Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lux Bonteri
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mace Windu
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mirro Lox
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Nari
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Nooa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Obi-Wan Kenobi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Padmé Amidala
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Qui-Gon Jinn
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sith
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Starlight Beacon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Supreme Leader Kylo Ren
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Supreme Leader Snoke
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Force
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Training Remote
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ty Yorrick
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Vernestra "Vern" Rwoh
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yoda
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yoda's Hut
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Zatt
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Notes and references
↑
1.0
1.1
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
↑
2.00
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09
Ultimate Star Wars
↑
3.0
3.1
3.2
Rise of the Separatists
↑
4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
Jedi Order
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
5.0
5.1
5.2
Endless Vigil
↑
6.00
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
6.11
Star Wars: Complete Locations
↑
7.0
7.1
Aftermath: Empire's End
↑
8.00
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
8.05
8.06
8.07
8.08
8.09
8.10
8.11
8.12
8.13
8.14
8.15
8.16
8.17
8.18
8.19
8.20
8.21
8.22
8.23
8.24
8.25
8.26
8.27
Star Wars
: Episode II
Attack of the Clones
↑
9.0
9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5
Dooku: Jedi Lost
↑
Russo-ISC
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
↑
12.0
12.1
12.2
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 6
↑
13.0
13.1
13.2
Sith
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
14.0
14.1
14.2
14.3
14.4
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
↑
15.0
15.1
15.2
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
↑
16.0
16.1
16.2
16.3
16.4
Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
101
↑
18.0
18.1
18.2
18.3
18.4
Star Wars: Timelines
↑
19.00
19.01
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
19.06
19.07
19.08
19.09
19.10
19.11
19.12
19.13
19.14
19.15
19.16
19.17
19.18
19.19
19.20
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
↑
20.00
20.01
20.02
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
20.07
20.08
20.09
20.10
20.11
20.12
20.13
20.14
20.15
20.16
20.17
20.18
20.19
20.20
20.21
20.22
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
↑
21.00
21.01
21.02
21.03
21.04
21.05
21.06
21.07
21.08
21.09
The Star Wars Book
↑
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
↑
Star Wars: Obi-Wan Kenobi
— "
Part III
"
↑
Luke Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Bloodline
↑
26.00
26.01
26.02
26.03
26.04
26.05
26.06
26.07
26.08
26.09
26.10
26.11
26.12
26.13
26.14
Star Wars
: Episode I
The Phantom Menace
↑
27.0
27.1
Darth Vader
(2017) 2
↑
Crucible
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
29.00
29.01
29.02
29.03
29.04
29.05
29.06
29.07
29.08
29.09
29.10
29.11
29.12
The High Republic: Light of the Jedi
↑
30.0
30.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Mandalore Plot
"
↑
Holocron
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Holocron Heist
"
↑
33.0
33.1
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
↑
34.0
34.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Gathering
"
↑
Kanan
7
↑
36.0
36.1
36.2
36.3
36.4
36.5
36.6
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
↑
37.0
37.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Shroud of Darkness
"
↑
The High Republic: The Battle of Jedha
↑
39.00
39.01
39.02
39.03
39.04
39.05
39.06
39.07
39.08
39.09
39.10
39.11
39.12
39.13
39.14
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
↑
SWCE 2023: Three New
Star Wars
Movies Announced
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
41.0
41.1
41.2
41.3
41.4
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
↑
Kathleen Kennedy on the Future of Star Wars | Star Wars Celebration 2023
on the official
IGN
YouTube channel
(
April 7
,
2023
):
"We're fifteen years out from Rise of Skywalker."
(
backup link
)
↑
43.0
43.1
Obi-Wan and Anakin
5
↑
44.0
44.1
Star Wars
(2020) 20
↑
45.0
45.1
45.2
45.3
45.4
45.5
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
↑
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Day
"
↑
Sith
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
48.0
48.1
Master & Apprentice
↑
49.00
49.01
49.02
49.03
49.04
49.05
49.06
49.07
49.08
49.09
49.10
49.11
49.12
The High Republic: Path of Vengeance
↑
50.0
50.1
50.2
50.3
50.4
50.5
Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel
↑
51.0
51.1
51.2
51.3
51.4
51.5
51.6
51.7
The High Republic: Convergence
↑
52.0
52.1
Age of Republic - Qui-Gon Jinn
1
↑
Kyber Crystal (Lightsaber Crystal)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Lightsaber
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
55.0
55.1
55.2
55.3
55.4
Ilum
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
56.0
56.1
56.2
56.3
56.4
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
film
↑
57.0
57.1
57.2
57.3
57.4
57.5
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Wrong Jedi
"
↑
"The Wrong Jedi" Episode Gallery
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Yoda
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Ultimate Factivity Collection: Star Wars
↑
61.0
61.1
Obi-Wan and Anakin
1
↑
Obi-Wan and Anakin
4
↑
63.0
63.1
63.2
63.3
63.4
63.5
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Jedi
↑
64.0
64.1
Ahch-To Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
states that the first
Jedi Temple
was constructed on Ahch-To tens of thousands of
years
before the events of
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
.
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
places
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
in the same year as the events of
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
, which
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
dates to
34 ABY
. Therefore, the first Jedi Temple was constructed tens of thousands of years before 34 ABY.
↑
66.0
66.1
66.2
66.3
66.4
66.5
66.6
66.7
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
↑
Coruscant
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Jedi Temple Location Gallery
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
To Catch a Jedi
"
↑
70.0
70.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sabotage
"
↑
71.0
71.1
71.2
71.3
71.4
71.5
71.6
71.7
71.8
Tarkin
↑
72.0
72.1
72.2
72.3
72.4
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Path of the Jedi
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Monster
"
↑
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
↑
75.0
75.1
75.2
75.3
Star Wars
(2015) 9
↑
76.0
76.1
76.2
76.3
76.4
The Rise of Kylo Ren
2
↑
77.0
77.1
77.2
Jedha
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Video Interview With 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story' Director Gareth Edwards
by Sciretta, Peter on
/Film
(
July 15
,
2016
)
(
backup link
)
↑
ExtraTV
(
@extratv
) on
Twitter
(
post
):
"
@DonnieYenCT
reveals connection between planet Jedha & lightsabers! #RogueOne #StarWars #SWCE"
(
backup link
)
↑
Holy City of Jedha
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
81.0
81.1
81.2
81.3
81.4
81.5
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
"
↑
82.0
82.1
82.2
Shadow of the Sith
↑
83.0
83.1
83.2
83.3
83.4
83.5
83.6
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Dangerous Debt
"
↑
The Rise of Kylo Ren
2
↑
85.0
85.1
85.2
85.3
85.4
85.5
SWCA 2022: Marvel's
Star Wars: Yoda
Miniseries Revealed
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
86.0
86.1
86.2
Yoda
1
↑
87.0
87.1
87.2
87.3
87.4
87.5
The Living Force
↑
88.0
88.1
The Jedi Face a Crisis in New
Star Wars
Novel
The Living Force
by Whitbrook, James on
Gizmodo
(
September 7
,
2023
)
(
backup link
)
↑
Jedi Temple
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
90.0
90.1
The High Republic: Into the Dark
↑
The High Republic
(2021) 7
↑
Padawan
↑
The High Republic: Tempest Runner
↑
94.0
94.1
94.2
94.3
94.4
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
↑
95.0
95.1
95.2
95.3
95.4
95.5
95.6
95.7
The High Republic: The Rising Storm
↑
96.0
96.1
96.2
96.3
96.4
96.5
96.6
The High Republic: Midnight Horizon
↑
97.0
97.1
97.2
97.3
97.4
97.5
The High Republic: Path of Deceit
↑
Master & Apprentice
↑
99.0
99.1
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 7
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Supply Lines
"
↑
101.0
101.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Rise of Clovis
"
↑
102.0
102.1
102.2
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Voyage of Temptation
"
↑
103.0
103.1
The High Republic
(2021) 3
↑
104.0
104.1
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
3
↑
Kanan
1
↑
106.0
106.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Jedi Crash
"
↑
Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade
↑
108.0
108.1
The Princess and the Scoundrel
↑
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian
"
↑
110.0
110.1
Star Wars
(2020) 4
↑
111.0
111.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Test of Strength
"
↑
112.0
112.1
"
The Lesson (Obi-Wan & Anakin)
" —
Star Wars
(2020) 25
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Hostage Crisis
"
↑
114.00
114.01
114.02
114.03
114.04
114.05
114.06
114.07
114.08
114.09
114.10
The High Republic: Cataclysm
↑
The High Republic
(2021) 8
↑
116.0
116.1
The Acolyte | Official Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
↑
117.0
117.1
117.2
117.3
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
1
↑
118.0
118.1
"
What a Jedi Makes
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
↑
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 12
↑
"
The Weapon
" —
Age of Republic Special
1
↑
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
↑
Padawan
↑
123.0
123.1
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
The Sith Lord
"
↑
124.00
124.01
124.02
124.03
124.04
124.05
124.06
124.07
124.08
124.09
124.10
Crimson Reign
3
↑
125.00
125.01
125.02
125.03
125.04
125.05
125.06
125.07
125.08
125.09
125.10
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
↑
"
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
" —
Star Wars Insider
215
↑
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
↑
128.0
128.1
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 1
↑
129.0
129.1
129.2
The High Republic
(2022) 1
↑
The High Republic
(2022) 5
↑
131.0
131.1
131.2
131.3
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Choices
"
↑
132.0
132.1
132.2
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi
— "
Justice
"
↑
133.0
133.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Kidnapped
"
↑
134.0
134.1
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
229
↑
135.0
135.1
Darth Vader
(2017) 1
↑
Star Wars
(2020) 26
↑
"
Luke on the Bright Side
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
↑
138.0
138.1
138.2
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Lethal Trackdown
"
↑
139.0
139.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Jedi Who Knew Too Much
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Defenders of Peace
"
↑
141.0
141.1
141.2
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
5
↑
142.0
142.1
142.2
142.3
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Old Friends Not Forgotten
"
↑
Rafa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Heroes on Both Sides
"
↑
145.0
145.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Gone with a Trace
"
↑
Star Wars: The Acolyte
— "
Lost / Found
"
↑
147.0
147.1
147.2
147.3
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Tipping Points
"
↑
Age of Republic - Darth Maul
1
↑
149.0
149.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Homecoming
"
↑
150.0
150.1
150.2
150.3
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Liberty on Ryloth
"
↑
Lux Bonteri
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Unlimited Power
↑
Nexus of Power
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A Test of Strength
"
↑
155.0
155.1
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
↑
156.0
156.1
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the defeat of the
Ordu Aspectu
around
20,000 BBY
. Therefore, Ordu Aspectu must have been active before c. 20,000
BBY
.
↑
Jedi Order
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
158.0
158.1
158.2
158.3
158.4
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Sacrifice
"
↑
159.0
159.1
159.2
159.3
159.4
159.5
159.6
159.7
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Big Bang
"
↑
Jedi Temple
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Slaves of the Republic
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Escape from Kadavo
"
↑
According to
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
the
Fall of the Old Republic
took place prior to the founding of the
Galactic Republic
.
The Star Wars Book
states that the Galactic Republic was founded 1032
years
before the events of
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
, which corrosponds to
1032 BBY
per
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
. Therefore, the Fall of the Old Republic must have taken place prior to 1032 BBY
↑
165.0
165.1
165.2
Darth Bane
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
2018 Topps
Star Wars
Galactic Files
Card:
Darth Bane
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia
↑
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Jelucan–Lord Junn
↑
169.0
169.1
169.2
Darth Bane
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
Star Wars
(2020) 20
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Droids in Distress
"
↑
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
states that a rumoured third volume of the
Aionomica
was the subject of a forgery scandal three hundred
years
before the
fall
of the
Jedi Order
, which
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
dates to
19 BBY
. Therefore, the scandal occurred in
319 BBY
.
↑
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 9
↑
174.0
174.1
174.2
The High Republic: Out of the Shadows
↑
The High Republic: Mission to Disaster
↑
176.0
176.1
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
↑
The High Republic: Trail of Shadows
5
↑
The High Republic Adventures
(2021) 8
↑
The High Republic: Eye of the Storm
2
↑
180.0
180.1
180.2
180.3
180.4
Sifo-Dyas
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Lost One
"
↑
Count Dooku
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Lawless
"
↑
184.0
184.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Conspiracy
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Unknown
"
↑
186.0
186.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Fugitive
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Orders
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Shattered
"
↑
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
↑
Star Wars Battlefront II: Battle of Geonosis Official Trailer
on the official
Electronic Arts
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
↑
191.0
191.1
191.2
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
1
↑
192.0
192.1
Brotherhood
↑
Collapse of the Republic
↑
Jedi of the Republic – Mace Windu
3
↑
195.0
195.1
195.2
195.3
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Carnage of Krell
"
↑
196.0
196.1
196.2
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The Hidden Enemy
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Innocents of Ryloth
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Landing at Point Rain
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Weapons Factory
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Legacy of Terror
"
↑
Geonosis
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Assassin
"
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Citadel Rescue
"
↑
Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir
3
↑
General Pong Krell
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
The General
"
↑
208.0
208.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Darkness on Umbara
"
↑
Clone Trooper Dogma
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
Voices
"
↑
211.0
211.1
and
Kanan
2
↑
212.0
212.1
212.2
212.3
Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order
↑
213.0
213.1
213.2
A New Dawn
↑
214.0
214.1
Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal
↑
215.0
215.1
215.2
215.3
215.4
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fire Across the Galaxy
"
↑
216.0
216.1
216.2
"
The End of History
" —
Star Wars Insider
154
↑
217.0
217.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rise of the Old Masters
"
↑
Darth Vader
(2017) 19
↑
219.0
219.1
Darth Vader
(2017) 7
↑
220.0
220.1
Aftermath: Life Debt
↑
Lando
3
↑
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
↑
Mustafar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 10
↑
Jedi Training: Trials of the Temple
↑
Inquisitors
1
↑
Inquisitors
2
↑
Inquisitors
3
↑
Inquisitors
4
↑
230.0
230.1
230.2
230.3
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor
↑
231.0
231.1
231.2
Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion
↑
"
Eyes on the Prize
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
6
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Gathering Forces
"
↑
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
↑
235.0
235.1
235.2
235.3
235.4
235.5
235.6
235.7
235.8
Star Wars
: Episode IX
The Rise of Skywalker
↑
Star Wars
LINE Webtoon
↑
Lor San Tekka
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 16: The Rescue
"
↑
Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett
— "
Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor
"
↑
240.0
240.1
The Rise of Kylo Ren
3
↑
241.0
241.1
241.2
The Rise of Kylo Ren
1
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Shadow of the Sith
to
21 ABY
.
↑
243.0
243.1
243.2
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
novelization
↑
244.0
244.1
The Rise of Kylo Ren
4
↑
Supreme Leader Kylo Ren
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
↑
Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace Scrapbook
↑
Tom Hoeler
(
@DarthInternous
) on
Twitter
(
post
):
"Jedi is still a singular plural."
(
backup link
)
↑
Empire, the
in the
Databank
(
original site
is defunct)
↑
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
↑
THE FORCE IS BACK
by David Kamp on VANITY FAIR (
February
,
1999
)
↑
252.0
252.1
Interview: Dave Filoni on
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
Season Five, Part 2
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
253.0
253.1
253.2
253.3
253.4
The Star Wars Archives: Episodes I–III, 1999–2005
↑
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
novelization
↑
Darth Plagueis
↑
George Lucas: Project Happiness Interview
on the
Mount Madonna School Values in World Thought
YouTube channel
(
July 20
,
2016
)
(
backup link
)
↑
Rebels Recon
#3.02: Inside "The Holocrons of Fate" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
↑
DAVE FILONI: Anakin, Attachments and The Path To The Dark Side
on the
Force Radio @RebelForceRadio
Force Radio YouTube channel
(
December 7
,
2018
)
(
backup link
)
↑
259.0
259.1
Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones
(commentary track)
↑
The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith
↑
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
↑
The Art of Star Wars: The Last Jedi
↑
"
Long Live Luminous
" —
Star Wars Insider
232
↑
Light of the Jedi author Charles Soule can finally talk about Light of the Jedi
by Matt Patches on
Polygon
(
January 12
,
2021
)
(
backup link
)
↑
"
Star Wars: The Acolyte
: Charlie Barnett & Dafne Keen
" —
Star Wars Insider
228
The
Convocation of the Force
(
382 BBY
)
Church of the Force
Kilan T'Dara
(Chair)
Jedi Order
Leebon
→
Vildar Mac
Sorcerers of Tund
Tarna Miak
Disciples of the Whills
Elris Florent
Fallanassi
Sirené Taran
Matukai
Waran Val
Lonto
Susalee
Guardians of the Whills
Unidentified representative
Independently
→
Tey Sirrek
[edit]
In other languages
čeština
Ελληνικά
español
français
한국어
italiano
ქართული
日本語
polski
português
suomi
Türkçe
українська
Related categories:
Jedi organizations
Related Categories:
Jedi organizations