Alliance to Restore the Republic
General information
Organization type
Resistance movement
Founding document
Declaration of the Rebel Alliance
Declaration of Rebellion
Constitution
Alliance guiding principles
Head of state
Chancellor
Head of government
Secretary of the Cabinet
Commander-in-chief
Chancellor
Executive branch
Alliance High Command
Alliance Civil Government
Alliance Cabinet
Military branch
Alliance Military
Societal information
Capital
Dantooine base
,
Dantooine
Base One
,
Yavin 4
Mako-Ta Space Docks
Echo Base
,
Hoth
5251977
Historical information
Formed from
Galactic Republic
Delegation of 2,000
Various
Separatist Alliance
resistance groups
Atrivis Resistance Group
Bail Organa's resistance movement
Axis network
Phoenix Cell
Massassi Group
Mon Mothma's rebel cell
Spectres
Jedi Order
Galactic Empire
(defectors)
Date established
5 BBY
(unofficially)
2 BBY
(officially)
Date reorganized
4 ABY
;
as the
New Republic
"
We, the Rebel Alliance, do therefore in the name—and by the authority—of the free beings of the Galaxy, solemnly publish and declare our intentions:
To fight and oppose you and your forces, by any and all means at our disposal;
To refuse any Imperial law contrary to the rights of free beings;
To bring about your destruction and the destruction of the Galactic Empire;
To make forever free all beings in the galaxy.
To these ends, we pledge our property, our honor, and our lives.
"
―Declaration of Rebellion
The
Alliance to Restore the Republic
(
2 BBY
–
4 ABY
), commonly known as the
Rebel Alliance
,
Alliance
, and the
Rebellion
, was a resistance movement to oppose the
rule
of the
Galactic Empire
and to
restore
the
Galactic Republic
. The Alliance was publicly and formally declared with the
Declaration of the Rebel Alliance
by
Senator
Mon Mothma
, which brought numerous rebel cells together as a common force opposed to the Empire. Indeed, the concept of a "Rebel Alliance" had its roots in smaller movements that had worked to unite disconnected cells, such as a
movement
secretly led by fellow Senator
Bail Prestor Organa
and a
rebel network
formed by revolutionary
Luthen Rael
, who received funding and aid from Mothma. Such early groups and the eventual Alliance came together from a number of unrelated rebel cells, including the
crew
of the
Ghost
and the
Phoenix Cell
. The
Atrivis Resistance Group
was one of the first cells to join what Mothma began calling "
the Alliance
" before the formal formation of the Alliance to Restore the Republic.
The Alliance and the cells it united were born from the overall discontent within the Empire of those who wished the Galactic Republic restored. Its efforts were by supportive senators in the
Imperial Senate
such as Mothma, Organa, and later, his daughter
Leia Organa
. Its members were citizens of the Empire or defectors from the
Imperial Military
, such as
Jan Dodonna
,
Ryder Azadi
, and
Wedge Antilles
. Founded and united by Organa and
Ahsoka Tano
, the early rebels were assisted by surviving
Jedi
, such as
Kanan Jarrus
, and his
Padawan
,
Ezra Bridger
.
Clone Wars
veterans, such as
Captain
Rex
also assisted in the initial movement.
As opposed to waging all-out war, the Alliance waged an
insurgency
against the Empire, establishing small bases across
the galaxy
instead of controlling an entire planet. When the Alliance
stole
the
plans
for the Empire's ultimate weapon, the
Death Star
, and destroyed the space station in the
Battle of Yavin
with the help of
Luke Skywalker
, the tide of the war began to turn, and the Rebel threat began to prove a severe thorn in the Empire's side. The Rebellion continued to engage in battles with the Empire in the
Galactic Civil War
. However, under the command of
Darth Vader
, the Imperial forces succeeded in
defeating
the Alliance on
Hoth
, forcing the Alliance to scatter its forces in order to survive.
Eventually, the Alliance prevailed against the Empire and critically damaged it by launching an attack against the
second Death Star
during its construction in what would become the
Battle of Endor
. Not only did the Alliance manage to destroy the
battle station
, but the
Imperial Navy
was severely crippled by the loss of
one
of its
Super Star Destroyers
, and Luke Skywalker redeemed his father,
Darth
Vader, who killed
Emperor
Sheev Palpatine
, before dying himself in the battle.
The Alliance was soon
reorganized
into the fledgling
New Republic
, restoring the
Old Republic
and continued the rebellion against the shattered Empire, lasting until the
Battle of Jakku
one
year
after
Endor
, forcing the Galactic Empire to
end
the war and finally overthrowing it by the signing of the
Galactic Concordance
.
History
Early foundations
Resistance movements aided by the Jedi
"
The Separatists have strength in numbers. We're going to show you how to target and destroy them.
"
"
Now to be clear, we are not here to fight your war—rather, to show you how to conduct it in the most efficient and successful way possible.
"
―Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi brief the Onderon rebels
The Onderon rebels, the first of many militias that were created, receive training from the Jedi.
While the Alliance to Restore the Republic was a resistance movement opposed to the tyranny of the
Galactic Empire
and its
New Order
, its roots predated the actual birth of the Empire, when the
Galactic Republic
was in its
last years of existence
. During the
Clone Wars
, a conflict that pitted the Republic against the
Confederacy of Independent Systems
,
the
Jedi Order
helped create resistance units on Separatist-held worlds as part of a plan proposed by
Jedi Knight
Anakin Skywalker
, one example being the
Onderon rebels
.
However, it was not for many more
years
that such
rebel cells
would coalesce into a single Rebellion with a centralized leadership.
Delegation of 2,000
"
So this is how liberty dies... with thunderous applause.
"
―Padmé Amidala, to Bail Organa following the declaration of a New Order
Mon Mothma, Bail Organa, and Padmé Amidala (left) were among the first to oppose Sheev Palpatine, even before he became Emperor.
Also during the Clone Wars,
Supreme Chancellor
Sheev Palpatine
had managed to obtain many emergency powers from the
Galactic Senate
, which caused certain members of the Chancellor's own
Loyalist Committee
, including
Bail Prestor Organa
of
Alderaan
,
Padmé Amidala
of
Naboo
,
and
Mon Mothma
of
Chandrila
,
to start to complain about the chief of state's conduct.
The discontented
senatorial
representatives ended up forming the
Delegation of 2,000
. They signed the
Petition of 2,000
, a document that formally expressed its signatories' concerns with Palpatine's rule and called for him to relinquish his emergency powers as soon as possible. Senator
Meena Tills
of
Mon Cala
was among the petitioners.
After being branded traitors, the Jedi Order was nearly wiped out by the Republic's clone army, something Bail Organa would personally witness on Coruscant.
Shortly thereafter, the Clone Wars was brought to an
end
. Far from relinquishing his
dictatorial
status, Chancellor Palpatine unilaterally abolished the Republic in front of the whole Senate and anointed himself the
Galactic Emperor
, thus transforming the democratic government into an authoritarian regime, the Galactic Empire. Unbeknownst to most of the galactic community, the self-promoted Emperor Palpatine was in fact the
Sith Lord
Darth
Sidious, who had masterminded the Clone Wars so that he could gain power and overthrow the Republic. The Emperor immediately started to subvert democracy in
the galaxy
and declared the peacekeeping
Jedi
Knights enemies of the state.
In the immediate aftermath of the Clone Wars and Senator Amidala's death at the hands of her husband, Darth Vader — the identity adopted by Anakin Skywalker when he became Sidious's
Sith apprentice
— Senators Organa and Mothma started working in secret to overthrow the Empire.
Age of the Empire
"
They're not trying to make a difference. They're just trying to strike back.
"
"
And I understand that. But if the people who have a beef with the Empire act solely in their own interests, it won't do anybody else any good. In fact, it might make it harder for any kind of real rebellion to flower—
"
―Kanan Jarrus and Hera Syndulla
The Clone Wars ended with Chancellor Palpatine declaring himself Emperor of the Galactic Empire.
In the absence of any major opposition, the Galactic Empire thrived during the early days of Palpatine's reign, amassing a vast
military
and using it to instill fear in the civilian population,
yet public opinion
and the supposed power of the
Imperial Senate
remained vital
until Palpatine could fully cement his power.
All the same, the reformed Senate, being even less effective than it was during the last years of the Republic, did nothing to restrain that massive military expansion
as its senators, in time, gave into Palpatine's demands time and time again.
Meanwhile, in the deepest secrecy, the Empire worked on the
Death Star
, a moon-sized
battle station
capable of destroying entire
planets
.
The Onderon milita, led by Saw Gerrera, became one of the first groups to oppose the Empire.
Senators
Mon Mothma
and
Bail Prestor Organa
attempted to re-assert the power of the Senate through the
Imperial Rebirth Act
around 19 BBY.
While the act would pass, Palpatine claimed he had the authority to veto portions of it, curtailing whatever effectiveness it might have had. Mothma responded to the news by threating a prolonged political struggle, but
Grand Vizier
Mas Amedda
explained all the ways Palpatine had rigged the political game in his favor and forced Mothma to admit she was not yet ready to wage a war against Palpatine, who had both the love of the populous and the means to win such a struggle. In the wake of the act's failure, Mothma and Organa would meet with the
Partisan
leader
Saw Gerrera
and established something of an unofficial alliance with the rebel: deciding to work together to overthrow Palpatine, Gerrera promised to provide the basis of a rebel army, Organa set himself and Alderaan up as their alliance's ideological heart, and Mothma, in what she realized was the weakest contribution of the three, promised to continue building up coalitions to oppose the Emperor as their political heart.
Despite initially trying to find peace with the Empire, Cham Syndulla would organize a resistance cell against the Imperial occupation of Ryloth.
Although many people held a grudge against the Empire, few dared to act. Those who did often acted solely in their own interests, which actually made it harder for any kind of real, organized rebellion to appear.
A rare example of organized resistance against the Empire was that of
Cham Syndulla
's
Free Ryloth Movement
, which wanted to end the Imperial occupation on the planet
Ryloth
. It was formed from the
Twi'lek Resistance
, which had
resisted
the occupation of Ryloth by the Separatists during the Clone Wars. Over the years, the movement established hidden bases across the
Ryloth system
and executed raids against the Imperials.
Meanwhile,
Separatist holdouts
remained active in the galaxy and continued to fight
with hopes of securing independence from Imperial control.
The former Separatist capital,
Raxus Secundus
, was
occupied
by the Imperial Military,
yet that did little to quell the spirit of independence amongst its people.
Protected by rogue clone troopers, Imperial Senator Riyo Chuchi met with former Separatist Senator Avi Singh to discuss opposing the Empire.
During or after
18 BBY
,
rumors swirled that Palpatine was scared about the prospect of planets and whole star systems allying together in the name of overthrowing him. While such a possible rebellion lacked any unifying leaders at that time, Palpatine and his agents were unable to act out in the open because public opinion was still so important to his legitimacy, even if he had the excuse to occupy worlds like Raxus. At that time, a growing number of
Pantorans
wished for true independence instead of remaining under the Imperial flag. To that end, Pantoran Senator
Riyo Chuchi
met
with the former Separatist Senator of Raxus,
Avi Singh
, to discuss Palpatine's fears and the prospect of an allied Rebellion. To try and silence a revolution before it began, a
clone assassin
codenamed
CX-1
was dispatched to kill Singh, but his efforts were halted by the
Clone Underground
, a network of clones who had rebelled against the Empire and hoped to help their brethren.
Various Separatist holdouts attempted to resist Imperial assimilation, only to be crushed by the Empire.
Another rebel cell emerged one year after the end of the Clone Wars when the Empire decided to severely
punish
the world of
Antar 4
for its past ties with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. That murderous operation, spearheaded by
Wilhuff Tarkin
, prompted the former
Republic Intelligence
agent
Berch Teller
to found his own
resistance cell
. Teller hoped they were contributing to what would eventually grow into a cause against the Empire. Four years after its formation, the insurgents managed to steal the
Carrion Spike
, the personal
starship
of Tarkin, to attack various Imperial targets with information provided to them by an Imperial traitor,
Vice Admiral
Dodd Rancit
. Teller's insurgents later launched an attack on an Imperial convoy transporting important parts for the Death Star project. Their plans were soon thwarted by Tarkin's timely intervention, which resulted in the killing of every insurgent except Teller.
The early rebellion
Scattered cells
Assorted insurgencies, a single Empire
"
There will be times when the struggle seems impossible. I know this already. Alone, unsure, dwarfed by the scale of the enemy. Remember this. Freedom is a pure idea. It occurs spontaneously and without instruction. Random acts of insurrection are occurring constantly throughout the galaxy. There are whole armies, battalions that have no idea that they've already enlisted in the cause. Remember that the frontier of the Rebellion is everywhere. And even the smallest act of insurrection pushes our lines forward.
"
―Karis Nemik
Mon Mothma began working alongside Luthen Rael to fund rebel operations.
However, by
5 BBY
, a number of rebel cells had formed, operating all across the galaxy as part of an
early rebellion
against growing Imperial oppression, especially in light of the Empire's continuing expansion throughout the
Outer Rim
.
One insurgency began in the
Atrivis sector
, where the
Liberators
seized
an
Imperial garrison
but were devastatingly defeated by the
Imperial Navy
soon afterwards.
A rebel operative named
Luthen Rael
did much of the on-the-ground early work in forming a
network
of rebel cells,
receiving funding from
and working alongside Senator Mothma.
Mothma also established a
rebel cell
of her own at some point.
The three principle architects of the Rebel Alliance would prove to be Mothma, Organa, and Gerrera,
the most extreme of the three.
However, the Alliance might never have been established if not for Rael's efforts,
with future rebel
Wilmon Paak
, indeed, arguing the Alliance owed its existence to him.
Working with Ahsoka Tano, Organa would establish his own network of rebel cells.
Organa and former
Jedi
Ahsoka Tano
operated as part of their own
resistance movement
that would fall into the larger whole of
an emerging alliance of rebel cells.
With the Empire beginning to take notice of Mothma's banking activities, Rael set up a
rebel infiltration team
under Mothma's cousin
Vel Sartha
to
steal
the quarterly payroll for the Imperial sector surrounding the
planet
Aldhani
.
Rael also reasoned such a major strike against the Empire would make the regime lash out, inspiring more people to rise up as they suffered under a sudden burst of Imperial tyranny.
However, the success of the Aldhani mission effectively froze Mothma's bank accounts
under new laws,
thereby leaving Mothma with few ways to even out her accounts before the Empire fully investigated. In the end, the only solution before Mothma was to marry her daughter
Leida
off to the
son
of
Chandrilan
oligarch
Davo Sculdun
. If she went through with the proposal, Sculdun promised to deposit into her account,
thereby covering up the missing funds she had delivered to Rael.
Building the fight
"
We need to pull together, Saw! Whatever our final version of success looks like, there's no chance any of us can make it real on our own.
"
―Luthen Rael, to Saw Gerrera
Under Luthen's orders, Vel Sartha led a successful heist of an entire quarterly Imperial payroll on Aldhani.
While Mothma could find Rael's tactics hard to stomach, particularly his usage of the Aldhani heist to hasten the speed of Imperial oppression in the name of inspiring more people to rebel,
she did reflect in her personal journal that the Rebellion she was helping to form needed to show its teeth, lest Palpatine's military crush it in its infancy.
While she did have hope of a peaceful end to the conflict in the Senate,
she and Bail Organa helped organize paramilitary attacks from the shadows, all while presenting themselves as principled dissenters in public. Furthermore, she knew that the galaxy's assorted rebel cells needed to unify in the name of opposing Palpatine or else each would be hunted down one by one.
Luthen Rael met with Saw Gerrera to argue that the rebel cells needed to band into a unified force.
Rael also met with Saw Gerrera of the Partisans in an effort to convince him to work alongside former Separatist
Anto Kreegyr
's
group
, arguing that the rebel cells, despite their political differences, needed to join together to become a true threat to the Empire.
By the time Gerrera agreed, the
Imperial Security Bureau
had discovered Kreegyr's looming
raid
on the
Spellhaus Imperial power station
. Reasoning that Kreegyr's demise would make the ISB overconfident and protect Rael's agent within the ISB,
Lonni Jung
, the two reluctantly agreed to sacrifice Kreegyr's forces for the greater good of their war effort.
Shortly afterward, the raid indeed ended in the total destruction of Kreegyr's attack party. Following the
Rix Road riot
, Rael also formally recruited
Cassian Jeron Andor
into his network.
The
Atrivis Resistance Group
, led by
Travia Chan
, was also active in the Atrivis sector. After deliberation, they decided to join Mothma, becoming one of the first groups of what Mothma had begun calling "the Alliance."
Rise of the Spectres
The Specters would come into contact with Organa's rebel network through his droids C-3PO and R2-D2.
One rebel cell was the
Spectres
, which largely fought on the Imperial-controlled Outer Rim planet of
Lothal
.
Another rebel cell was
Phoenix Cell
, led by
Commander
Jun Sato
,
which was a part of the larger rebel network led by Tano and Senator Organa. At that point, members of those cells were not supposed to know they were part of a larger movement known as the rebellion, so if captured, they could not give information on the other rebel cells. The cells were only provided with intelligence on a need-to-know basis by Tano, using the codename "
Fulcrum
."
After a string of missions, Specter member Ezra Bridger would broadcast an inspiring call to arms to potential rebels across the galaxy.
Due to the increased rebel activities around Lothal, the Imperial Security Bureau dispatched
Agent
Alexsandr Kallus
to hunt down the Spectres. Kallus saw the rebel activities as part of a pattern which could lead to a spark of rebellion.
The Spectres further came to the attention of Organa and received information from Tano as "Fulcrum."
After the Spectres frustrated several Imperial efforts to capture them,
Grand Moff
Tarkin visited Lothal and warned the Imperial officials and officers that while the various cells lacked unity, the rebels on Lothal were unique because they had unity, which made them a credible threat to the Empire. Tarkin warned that the failures of Imperial forces on Lothal allowed the Spectres to represent hope, and ordered
the Grand Inquisitor
to execute two of the incompetent Imperial officers. He warned the others that failure would have consequences.
Under Ahsoka's command, forces from Phoenix Cell would rescue the Specters from an Imperial fleet over Mustafar, marking the first major fleet engagement between rebel and Imperial naval forces.
The Rebellion's existence was finally revealed to the Empire when they
captured
Kanan Jarrus
after he and the rest of the Spectres were able to hack and send out a rebellious transmission to Lothal and many surrounding systems. His capture prompted his fellow Spectres to launch a mission to
rescue
him from Tarkin's personal Imperial Star Destroyer, the
Sovereign
, over
Mustafar
. In order to save one of their cells and the only other Jedi involved in the movement other than herself, Tano led Phoenix Squadron to assist in their escape. Following the successful rescue, she informed the Spectres that their protocol of secrecy had changed. In response to the transmission sent by the Spectres and the rumors of the rebel action over Mustafar, anti-Imperial unrest began on Lothal and several other worlds. In response, the Emperor dispatched
Darth
Vader to deal with the issue.
New alliances and expansions
"
There comes a time when refusing to stop violence can no longer be called nonviolence. We cease to be objectors and become bystanders. At some point, morality must be wedded to action, or else it's no more than mere… vanity.
"
―Senator Mon Mothma
Darth Vader would personally cripple the fleet of Phoenix Cell, though a handful of rebels would escape.
Following the
Siege of Lothal
, the Spectres were forced to retreat from Lothal and Phoenix Cell was crippled when Vader
destroyed
their
command ship
. As a result of their encounter with Vader on Lothal, the Spectres decided to permanently join Phoenix Cell.
Despite the attack, the Spectres were able to
recruit
retired
Clone Captain
Rex
to their cause.
Phoenix Cell was also able to acquire a prototype
B-wing starfighter
from
Mon Calamari
engineer
Quarrie
.
Working with Rex, the Spectres were able to
destroy
the
Imperial Interdictor
.
The Spectres also prevented members of the
Inquisitorius
from capturing several Force-sensitive children.
A rebel fleet was constructed over the planet
Paucris Major
and
evacuated
upon being warned by
Princess
Leia Organa
, daughter of Senator Organa, of a coming Imperial force.
Phoenix Cell would be supplemented with three Hammerhead corvettes which they would "steal" from Leia Organa, daughter of Bail.
Later, Phoenix Cell suffered a major blow when the Empire learned they were hiding on the planet
Garel
.
The Phoenix Squadron managed to escape but suffered some losses during the
Battle of Garel
. After Senator Organa learned of their losses, he sent Leia to
deliver
three
Sphyrna
-class Hammerhead corvettes
to them on Lothal.
In
3 BBY
, Phoenix Cell undertook a mission to seek safe passage for the Rebellion through the
Concord Dawn system
. After
meeting resistance
from
Fenn Rau
's
Mandalorian Protectors
, the Spectres managed to kidnap him and force him to meet their demands for safe passage after a second attempt.
All the while, the
Telaris rebel stardocks
were hard at work converting Mon Calamari
Star Cruisers
into warships.
Working with Cham Syndulla, Phoenix Cell would steal an Imperial carrier for use as their new capital ship.
Afterward, the Spectres and Cham's Free Ryloth movement joined forces to steal a
Quasar Fire
-class cruiser-carrier
above the planet Ryloth.
The stolen carrier became the new flagship
Phoenix Nest
of Phoenix Squadron. With the help of Chopper and the former Imperial
RA-7 protocol droid
AP-5
, Phoenix Squadron established a new base
called
Chopper Base
on the planet
Atollon
.
By
2 BBY
,
the in-progress Rebel Alliance was also establishing a base in the
Great Temple
of the
moon
Yavin 4
, where Organa and Mothma intended for the revolution to be headquartered in due time.
As a temporary base that ended up being expanded more than originally intended,
however, the Alliance's first headquarters would nonetheless be established through the
Dantooine base
.
Eluding Thrawn
Grand Admiral Thrawn was tasked to eliminate the burgeoning rebel threat.
The Imperial tactician
Thrawn
was promoted by the Emperor to
Grand Admiral
for his role in
obliterating
the
rebel insurgency
in the
Batonn sector
and the mastermind vigilante
Nightswan
. Nightswan once planned on bringing various rebel and insurgent groups together as an alliance, but, as he had recalled to Thrawn, he stopped because of paranoia, distrust, "squabbling," and pride. Nightswan did not know if any individual would succeed in creating a rebel alliance, simply knowing he was not the man who could.
Phoenix Cell would steal several Republic-era Y-wings for Jan Dodanna's Massassi Group.
Grand Admiral Thrawn believed the Empire was facing a galaxy-wide insurgency and studied his enemies' philosophy, art, and history in order to defeat them. In response to the activities of Phoenix Cell in the
Lothal sector
,
Governor
Arihnda Pryce
enlisted his help in defeating them. Thrawn was not content with destroying Phoenix Squadron but sought to destroy the entire rebel fleet. Consequently, he allowed the squadron to escape with several stolen
Y-wings
during a
mission to Reklam Station
. These Y-wings were sent to
General
Jan Dodonna
's
unit
.
Phoenix Cell agent Sabine Wren aided Imperial pilots Wedge Antilles and Derek Klivian in defecting to the rebellion.
The Rebellion also received an unexpected ally in the form of Agent Kallus, a former adversary of Phoenix Cell and the Spectres.
Kallus had undergone a change of heart after befriending
Zeb Orrelios
on the ice moon of
Bahryn
.
Kallus became the rebel spy known as Fulcrum and informed Phoenix Cell that several
TIE fighter pilot
cadets at the
Skystrike Academy
were planning to defect. Kallus also helped the rebel Wren escape with the defecting pilots
Wedge Antilles
and
Derek Klivian
,
who would later join the Alliance's
Starfighter Corps
.
After Governor
Gar Saxon
massacred the Mandalorian Protectors, Rau finally joined the Rebellion.
After the Phoenix rebels evacuated rebel sympathizers from the planet
Mykapo
, the rebel cell
Iron Squadron
joined the Rebellion.
The Spectres later undertook a mission with the former and original Governor of Lpthal
Ryder Azadi
's
rebel cell
to steal Thrawn's plans for a
new prototype starfighter
from the
Imperial Armory Complex
on Lothal. During the course of their
mission
, the rebels were helped by Agent Kallus.
The Specters would come into conflict with Saw Gerrera over his treatment of a surviving Geonosian, who Saw planned to interrogate for Imperial secrets.
Later,
Rebel Command
dispatched Gerrera and his Partisans on a
mission
to investigate the disappearance of the
Geonosian
species. With the help of the Spectres and Geonosian survivor
Klik-Klak
, the rebels discovered evidence that the Empire perpetrated genocide against the Geonosians. Although Organa hoped to use the information to raise awareness of Imperial atrocities and to sway more worlds to their cause, the evidence, canisters used in the genocide, was lost when the Spectres and Gerrera were forced to escape, although they did manage to take images of the canisters.
As the Rebellion continued to grow, Gerrera's violent tactics continued to put him at odds with the rest of the Rebels. In time, Mothma requested an official
resolution of Censure Condemning Saw Gerrera of the Partisans
to separate him from their growing alliance.
Thrawn also embarked on an ambitious program to search for Phoenix Squadron's base by dispatching
E-XD-series infiltrator droids
to sweep the Outer Rim Territories for signs of rebel activity. One unit,
EXD-9
,
discovered
Chopper Base but Orrelios,
Chopper
, and AP-5 reprogrammed him into an improvised bomb that was sent back to its base and destroyed one of Thrawn's
Star Destroyers
. Despite this setback, Thrawn managed to narrow down the search for Chopper Base to 94 systems.
Thrawn also later discovered that Kallus was a rebel
spy
and decided to use him against the Rebellion.
Rise of the Rebellion
Official formation
"
This is Senator Mon Mothma, I have been called a traitor for speaking out against a corrupt Galactic Senate. A Senate manipulated by the sinister tactics of the Emperor. For too long I have watched the heavy hand of the Empire strangle our liberties, stifling our freedoms in the name of ensuring our safety. No longer! Despite Imperial threats, despite the Emperor himself, I have no fear as I take new action. For I am not alone. Beginning today we stand together as allies. I hereby resign from the Senate to fight for you, not from the distant hall of politics but from the front lines. We will not rest until we bring an end to the Empire, until we restore our Republic! Are you with me?
"
―Mon Mothma to the various rebel cells during the Declaration of the Rebel Alliance
Mon Mothma, Jon Vander, Gold Two, Erskin Semaj, and the Spectres witnessing the birth of the Rebel Alliance.
The Rebel Alliance formally came into existence after Mothma resigned from the Imperial Senate and denounced Emperor Palpatine for his role in the
Ghorman Massacre
. With the help of
Phoenix Leader
Hera Syndulla
and her Spectres, Mothma escaped Thrawn's forces by
traveling
through the dangerous
Archeon pass
to reach
Dantooine
,
the site of a
temporary base
that was increasingly built up as the Alliance grew.
While Alliance had already established a base on the
moon
Yavin 4
that Mothma and Bail Organa intended to become Alliance headquarters, they recognized it was not yet ready
as of 2 BBY. Nonetheless, the makings of the
Alliance Army
could be found at Yavin.
Over Dantooine, Mon Mothma gave a
HoloNet
speech calling for the galaxy to rise up in rebellion against the Empire. Mothma's message was heard by the rebel cells throughout the galaxy including Lothal and Atollon. The
Rebel Fleet
converged above Dantooine, and the cells were
unified
into the Alliance to Restore the Republic, which officially began the
Galactic Civil War
.
After its official formation, the Rebel Alliance would be supported by the Mon Calamari Exodus Fleet led by Admiral Raddus.
Around the same time as the Alliance's formal formation,
Garven Dreis
and
Antoc Merrick
joined the rebellion.
As the Alliance grew in publicity
and around that same time, a grouping of
Mon Calamari
cruisers
joined the Alliance fleet.
While Mothma admitted in
Short Notes on the History of the Rebel Alliance Navy
that the Alliance perhaps did not deserve the Mon Calamari
city-ships
that joined its ranks, as it failed to carry out significant action against the
occupation of Mon Cala
, she believed the Alliance's ability to secure these ships and the boon to the fleet they represented was proof of how important it was to win the hearts of the galaxy.
As part of the Attack on Lothal, Syndulla dispatched the droids AP-5 and Chopper along with the former Imperial cadet Wedge Antilles to steal clearance codes from the Imperial Security Bureau
station
on the
moon
Killun 71
. During the course of the mission, Chopper was
hijacked
by a group of Imperial slicers and intelligence officers led by
LT-319
, who were based aboard an
IGV-55 surveillance vessel
. LT-319 tried to use Chopper to kill the Spectres and find the location of Chopper Base. However, Syndulla managed to reprogram Chopper and transmitted a data surge that destroyed the Imperial surveillance vessel.
Now with proper organization, the rebellion would launch several operations against the Empire including Operation Shield Bash.
Having obtained the clearance codes, the Phoenix Squadron began training for their Attack on Lothal.
Ezra Bridger
was briefly distracted when he departed with Chopper on an
errant mission
to
Tatooine
to save Jedi Master
Obi-Wan Kenobi
from his arch-nemesis the renegade Sith Lord
Maul
. Kenobi told Bridger to return to his place with the Rebellion and defeated Maul in combat.
At some stage of its existence, the Rebel Alliance undertook an
assault on Vivonah
and the
slaughter on Noult
, which were decried as
terrorist
actions by rebel enemies.
The rebellion maintained forces on
the planet
Gaulus
until effecting a
withdrawal
.
Operation Shield Bash
was launched as a joint venture between the Alliance and
Truwel system rebels
at some point.
Ambush on Atollon
"
We'll never surrender to you, Thrawn.
"
"
You misunderstand, captain. I'm not accepting surrenders at this time. I want you to know failure. Utter defeat. And know that it is I who delivers it crashing down upon you.
"
―Hera Syndulla and Thrawn
As part of the final stage of the Attack on Lothal, General Dodonna and the Massassi Group traveled to Atollon to rendezvous with Phoenix Cell. However, Thrawn's spies reported the trajectory of Dodonna's forces to the Grand Admiral. After exposing Kallus as Fulcrum, Thrawn used the trajectories of Massassi Group and Kallus' Fulcrum transmission to determine the location of Chopper Base and Atollon. Thrawn's
Seventh Fleet
, using Interdictor cruisers
blockaded
the
Atollon system
, preventing the rebels from carrying out their attack on Lothal and almost instantly taking
EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate
. Trapped in the system, the rebels were forced to attack blockade using a tactic which included bombing runs which would try to break the Imperial positions. Thrawn knew about this and ordered his ships to keep to their positions. He then quickly fragmented
Green Squadron
as they attempted to cripple his Star Destroyers. He then counterattacked with his TIE squadrons, destroying several rebel corvettes including the
Sphyrna
-class corvette
P2
. Realizing his tactic was hopeless, Commander Sato ordered the fleet to charge the blockade, and the Star Destroyers took out a second Nebulon-B frigate and the
Braha'tok
-class gunship
Orion
almost instantly.
The
Ghost
and three
Braha'tok
-class gunships during the Battle of Atollon.
Bridger and Chopper managed to escape on the
Gauntlet fighter
Nightbrother
after Commander Sato sacrificed his life to destroy an Imperial
interdictor
vessel that was blocking hyperspace jumps. Ezra appealed to Mon Mothma for help, but the rebel leader was unwilling to expose the Alliance's true strength to Thrawn. Mothma agreed that Senator Organa was right when he said that the rebels were not yet ready to enter into open warfare with the Empire. With the Rebel Alliance unwilling to help, Ezra solicited the help of Sabine's
Clan Wren
, who destroyed Thrawn's second interdictor cruiser.
As a result, the few surviving rebel forces, under Captain Syndulla and General Dodonna, emerged from the surface taking heavy losses along the way and were able to flee to
Yavin 4
. Only a few ships, including the
Ghost
, the
CR90 corvette
Liberator
, two
Sphyrna
-class corvettes
P1
and
P3
and an assortment of
RZ-1 A-wing interceptors
and Y-wings got out.
To Mothma and other members of the Alliance, the defeat at Atollon was proof that their rebellion was not yet ready for open war. All the same, other actors across the galaxy believed such a conflict had already begun.
As thanks for Clan Wren's aid, rebel forces
—specifically Jarrus, Bridger, and C1-10P—joined Sabine Wren and her Mandalorian Clan in the
Mandalorian Civil War
.
Building the Alliance
"
This is a time of difficult choices. Sometimes impossible ones.
"
―Mon Mothma
The Alliance headquarters on Yavin 4
By
1 BBY
,
the Alliance became a full-fledged resistance movement headed by Organa and Mothma,
with the latter bearing the title of
Chancellor
.
Now in possession of a respectable starfleet that included
T-65B X-wing starfighters
, BTL-A4 Y-wing assault starfighter/bombers, A-wing starfighters, and large ships that included
MC80 Star Cruisers
, at least one
MC75 Star Cruiser
, EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate, and various
corvettes
, gunships, and
transports
, the Alliance was finally able to fight the Empire on better terms.
At the time, the Alliance was headquartered on the lush moon of Yavin 4, in an ancient stone structure known as the
Great Temple
.
Leia, the surrogate daughter of Organa and crown Princess of Alderaan, succeeded her adopted father in the Imperial Senate and was also a secret member of the Alliance.
Prominent Alliance war leaders of the time included General Dodonna and
Admiral
Gial Ackbar
.
Some of the Empire's
Joint Chiefs
, like General
Cassio Tagge
, realized the full threat of what they called "the Rebellion." Others, like Admiral
Conan Antonio Motti
, believed in the infallibility of the Empire's might.
The Imperials, in an attempt to avoid dissent and sympathy for the Rebellion amongst loyal Imperial citizens, ensured that, through the use of propaganda, they did not know how large of a threat the Alliance truly was, assuring them that it was merely an unorganized and vengeful terrorist organization.
Return to Lothal
"
Lothal looks like it's dying.
"
"
Your home isn't exactly the place you remember, kid. Better prepare yourself.
"
―Ezra Bridger and Cikatro Vizago
The rebellion sent Green Squadron to Lothal hoping to destroy Thrawn's TIE Defender factory, through they would fail.
After their attempt to attack Lothal ended with the loss at Atollon, the Spectres returned to Lothal to help the Lothal resistance group and Azadi. They got information of Thrawn's newly upgraded TIE/D Defender. Bridger and Wren
stole
the prototype but didn't get far thanks to its kill switch and had to escape with the
hyperdrive
. They sent Syndulla back to Alliance High Command to call for an attack on the Imperial Armory Complex of which they accepted. Syndulla got promoted to General and returned with a
Squadron
of
X-wing starfighters
and Y-wants piloted by Iron Squadron’s leader and the late Commander Sato’s nephew Captain
Mart Mattin
,
Cleat
,
Duke
,
Secon Daree
, and many others but Thrawn was there and had a trap set for them. One by one they fell, and Syndulla, Mattin, and Daree were the only confirmed survivors. Thrawn sent his assassin
Rukh
to find them, and he quickly captured Daree and Syndulla.
Desperate to destroy the Specters, Governor Pryce would destroy the Empire's fuel depo on Lothal, inadvertently accomplishing the rebel's mission for them, though she would kill Kanan Jarrus.
Shortly after, Bridger, Wren, and Jarrus went to save Syndulla. Jarrus broke into Governor Arihnda Pryce's office and rescued Hera whilst Bridger and Wren, disguised as
TIE pilots
, went to find them a way out. Jarrus and Syndulla escaped on a glider to the
Lothal City fuel depot
where they were met by Bridger and Wren in a
patrol transport
. Pryce then arrived on an
All Terrain Armored Transport
which fired upon the fuel pod. Jarrus sacrificed himself to save the others, and the fuel depot was lost, halting the production of the TIE/D Defender on Lothal.
Victory at Scarif
"
They've no idea we're coming. They've no reason to expect us. If we can make it to the ground, we'll take the next chance, and the next, on and on until we win, or the chances are spent.
"
―Sergeant Jyn Erso
After mainly relying on surgical operations in the pre-open war period,
the Alliance's first major battle with the Empire was on the tropical planet of
Scarif
, in which the Alliance scored its first large-scale victory in the War. Prior to the battle, the Alliance received stolen intel describing a secret Imperial weapon being constructed, which connected to recent
events
on the planet
Ghorman
and the ongoing Imperial crackdown on the moon
Jedha
. The information also suggested the renowned scientist and engineer
Doctor
Galen Erso
was affiliated with the weapon.
The Alliance Fleet above Scarif
Soon after, Alliance Intelligence intercepted information confirming Erso was building an Imperial superweapon capable of destroying entire planets. Alliance leadership sent Galen's daughter, Sergeant
Jyn Erso
, as well as Captain
Cassian Andor
to learn more about her father's involvement. Their subsequent efforts saw the Alliance discover the existence of the Death Star, as well as a fatal flaw in the design placed there by Galen Erso. During the Battle, the Alliance managed to steal the
blueprints
of the Death Star, which had just been completed after nearly two decades of work, from the Imperial satellite base on Scarif. The plans to the Death Star were then transported to Princess Leia on the
Tantive IV
.
Meanwhile, Erso's declaration of "
rebellions are built on hope
" before the battle was recorded by journalist
Corwi Selgrothe
and would be used as a rallying cry for the Alliance in propaganda.
Victory at Yavin
"
Thanks to your courage, we have delivered a telling blow to the Empire with the destruction of their Death Star. But our own casualties were not small.
"
―Leia Organa
Following the Battle of Scarif, Princess Leia's ship fell under Imperial attack over Tatooine, and she was captured by Darth Vader, which prevented her from bringing the blueprints to her father back on Alderaan. She still managed to entrust the plans to the
droids
R2-D2
and
C-3PO
, who escaped the ship in an escape pod and landed on Tatooine below. After Grand Moff Tarkin ordered the
destruction
of Alderaan with the Death Star's
superlaser
, Leia was rescued from the battle station's jail by the crew of the
Corellian
YT-1300f light freighter
Millennium Falcon
, who returned her the two droids. The group—except for Kenobi, who gave his life battling Darth Vader—escaped the Death Star aboard the
Falcon
and headed for the Alliance headquarters on Yavin 4, where the plans of Empire's superweapon were analyzed.
The Alliance launches its attack run on the Death Star.
Having traced the fleeing rebels, the Empire discovered the location of the Alliance base, and the Death Star closed into Yavin 4. The Alliance then launched its
assault
against the battle station, with Princess Leia monitoring in the command center. Leia’s older twin brother Jedi Lieutenant
Luke Skywalker
joined the mission in his own way, piloting an X-wing under the call sign of
Red Five
. However, the assault would go bad for the rebels as the stationary defenses and the TIE Fighter defenders would shot down nearly the entire strike force. As the Empire readied to destroy Yavin 4 and the Alliance with a single blow of its superlaser, Captain
Han Solo
unexpectedly saved Skywalker by blasting a group of Imperial
TIE/ln
starfighters
that were giving chase. Skywalker managed to fire a
proton torpedo
into the Death Star's
thermal exhaust port
, destroying the battle station by exploiting its only weakness and killed Governor Tarkin and many of the Empire’s best forces at his hand.
Post-Yavin advancements
Aftermath of victory
Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were honored by Princess Leia Organa for saving the Alliance in the Battle of Yavin.
In the shadow of Yavin, the Alliance had won its first major tactical victory, but at an enormous cost in lives. In addition to the Alliance pilots who died during the assault, at least millions of
Alderaanians
had perished with their planet, Bail Organa among them. After an
award ceremony
during which Princess Leia presented the heroes of the day with
medals of Bravery
, General Dodonna made it his priority to have Yavin 4
evacuated
. Now that the Empire knew their location, they had to find a new base of operations as soon as possible.
Darth Vader became obsessed with finding the young rebel who destroyed the Death Star and killed Governor Tarkin and most of the Empire’s best forces right under his nose. Unbeknownst to him, until learning Luke's last name through
Boba Fett
, and the rebels at the time, he was in fact the biological father of both Luke and Leia.
Not long after the Battle of Yavin, the Rebel Fleet relocated to the
Pantora system
.
The Rebellion also spread footage of their victory over the Death Star via the
DarkNet
,
and the destruction of the battle station was a boon to the rebellion's efforts: with such a major victory secured, the battle proved that victory over the Empire was actually possible.
Shortly after Yavin, the Empire
targeted and destroyed
the Alliance's
fuel refinery
within the
Choah Belt
, only for the rebels to respond by
capturing
the Imperial
fuel
tanker
Black Ice
. The
Black Ice
was lost in a collision at some point later in the war.
The
reinforcement of Thila
was a harrowing event experienced by rebel personnel at one point.
Rescuing Drusil Belphorin
Luke Skywalker and Nakari Kelen would rescue a slicer who was being watched by the Empire.
Luke and
Nakari Kelen
were tasked with rescuing the
Givin
Drusil Bephorin
, who the Empire was watching closely for her expert slicing skills. They met with a
Kupohan
spy called
Sakhet
on
Denon
, who directed them to Drusil. They extracted the Givin and took her to
Kupoh
, where another one of Sakhet's contacts
Azzur Nessin
owned a company in the capital of
Tonekh
city called
Nessin Courier & Cargo
. He repaired their ship, whilst they kept one of his employees
Migg Birkhit
from bringing the Empire to them. They managed to contain a
Gotal
ISB agent called
Barrisk Favvin
, along with Migg. Then, another employee
Ruuf Waluuk
called in a
Devaronian
mercenary and he killed Nessin before Skywalker and Kelen killed them both. They escaped the
Kupoh system
and went to
Omereth
, where Drusil's family were waiting after being extracted by
Major
Bren Derlin
. However, bounty hunters intercepted them and they crashed into the ocean and swam to the land where they face the many mercenaries. Kelen died in the fight, but Luke reunited Drusil with her family and she promised to return and help them.
Advancement into the Mid Rim
Following Yavin, the rebel army would engage in several conflicts with the Empire.
Bolstered by the victory at Yavin, the Alliance leaders had thousands of ships and hundreds of battle groups, including
Twilight Company
, advance into the
Mid Rim
. Many battles broke out and the Alliance gained lots of ground. But nine months in, the Fleet became overextended and a halt was ordered. This was soon followed by a retreat and the forces began evacuating their bases.
Attack on Weapons Factory Alpha
"
It would seem the tide of war has finally turned in our favor. In short, I dare say I have a
very
good feeling about this.
"
―C-3PO
Han, Luke, Leia, and R2 enter the factory.
Shortly after their victory at Yavin, the rebels launched over a dozen major attacks against the Empire
as the tide of the war seemed to shift in the Alliance's favor.
Such attacks included a
bombing of the Imdaar supply base
, the
bombing of the Kuat shipyards
,
and the
Assault on Cymoon
, which was home to a major
Imperial weapons factory
known as
Weapons Factory Alpha
. Luke, Princess Leia, R2-D2, and Han went undercover to the factory, while
Chewbacca
served as a sniper and C-3PO stayed on the Falcon as their escape pilot.
Despite a run-in with Darth Vader, the Rebels were able to destroy the factory,
striking another major blow against the Empire.
Although the Empire's official explanation was that the destruction of the Death Star and Weapons Factory Alpha were lies spread by rebel propaganda, rumors spread of the rebel victories.
However, during the brief encounter with Vader, he saw Luke's
lightsaber
. He recognized it as his old saber and began his hunt to find the origins of Luke.
Battle of Vrogas Vas
Darth Vader had been getting information on the boy who destroyed the Death Star and killed Governor Tarkin and most of the Empire’s best forces, he recently found out his name confirming Luke to be his son. Vader's rival Commander
Karbin
discovered his location and leaked it to Vader's helper,
Doctor Aphra
who sent Vader to the location,
Vrogas Vas
. He instantly ran into three X-wing squadrons,
Red Squadron
,
Blue Squadron
, and
Yellow Squadron
of which he began obliterating, before Luke crashed his X-wing into Vader's
TIE Advanced
and they both crashed onto the surface. The Alliance forces at the
Rebel Refueling Base
, then deployed hundreds of troops supported by dozens of tanks and they went hunting Vader. They also deployed the Y-wings of
Gray Squadron
to attack Vader and he destroyed them by hurling rocks with the Force.
Alliance forces surround Darth Vader.
Vader soon found himself surrounded by the many ground forces but did not fear them. He outsmarted them by activating their grenades and scattering them. He then mowed more of them down, whilst deflecting tank shots and taking out the
T-47 airspeeders
of
Cyan Squadron
. Meanwhile, Dr. Aphra had come to Vrogas Vas and captured Skywalker. Organa, Solo, and Chewbacca also arrived and Solo went to save Skywalker again, while Organa took a strike team to find Vader. Whilst Han faced off with Doctor Aphra, Vader took out Organa's squad but let her go to attract more rebels to him. Leia sent the Y-wings of
Amber Wing
to bomb the area, but they were soon stopped by Commander Karbin and his forces and Karbin tried to take Luke. Vader stopped Karbin's men and faced off with Karbin. Vader defeated Karbin, whilst Organa, Solo, Skywalker, and Chewie escaped with a captured Dr. Aphra. With the Empire overrunning them, the Alliance forces were forced to retreat as well.
Mid Rim Retreat
"
Talrezan Four. Hope Station. Unroola Dawn. All lost while we were escorting the fleet out of the Mid Rim. General Amrashad is dead.
"
―Micha Evon lists losses the Alliance has suffered
The
Mid Rim Retreat
was the Empire pushing the Alliance back from the Mid Rim following their former advancement. Companies such as Twilight Company,
Fish Eye Company
,
Bitter Pill Company
, and the
Twenty-First
were either defending, distracting or rescuing. It was part of the Alliance's withdrawal from the Mid Rim.
Twilight Company launched a campaign on
Haidoral Prime
as a part of a distraction for the Alliance Fleet to withdraw from the Mid Rim. During the campaign,
Sergeant
Hazram Namir
and his squad extracted the defecting Governor
Everi Chalis
. She offered herself as a necessary asset to the Alliance, as she knew a lot about the inner-workings of the "Imperial war machine."
Captain
Micha Evon
took an interest in this, but the soldiers weren't having it. One of them,
Corbo
, took a knife to her holding cell, because he was still grief-stricken after one of her laws had his pet
Felinx
killed. They then suffered a run-in with an Imperial patrol. But in the
Coyerti campaign
, Chalis gave them valuable intelligence on a distillery of which Namir and his squad destroyed. Twilight Company then suffered three more attacks in the
Metatessu sector
and realized the CR90 corvette
Thunderstrike
'
s hyperdrive was leaving a trail. Chalis arranged a
raid on an Imperial heavy freighter
for them to get supplies. Her plan worked flawlessly, but with the loss of two sergeants,
Fektrin
and
Maximian Ajax
.
Meanwhile, the Alliance was taking heavy losses during their withdrawal from the Mid Rim. Whilst the Twenty-First battled on
Bestine
and Bitter Pill Company lost their transport on a trash heap of a planet, the Alliance lost
Unroola Dawn
,
Talrezan Four
, and
Hope Station
, General
Amrashad
was killed.
Chalis and Captain Evon then got an invite to
Echo Base
and they took Namir,
Roja
, and
Beak
with them. Meanwhile, the rest of Twilight Company went to the
Elochar sector
where a flotilla, including the
Sixmoon
, was stationed. Chalis, Evon and the other three got to Echo Base on
Hoth
, where they met up with General
Philap Bygar
, who took them to a strategy conference. The other three did jobs around the Base in the meantime and Namir got into a fight with an
Rebel Alliance Special Forces
soldier called
Kryndal
, over the ethics of the Alliance. The strategy conference went as planned, but the alarm soon went off that the Empire had found them.
Rebounding from Hoth
Defeat at Hoth
"
Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our only hope.
"
"
Send all troops in sector twelve to the south slope to protect the fighters!
"
―C-3PO and Princess Leia Organa
In
3 ABY
,
one
of the many Imperial
probe droids
searching the galaxy ended up discovering the Rebels' presence.
Death Squadron
, Darth Vader's personal armada, headed for Hoth with a contingent of ground troops, ready to crush the rebellion once and for all. However, due to a mistake by Admiral
Kendal Ozzel
, the Alliance forces were warned of the Empire's arrival. The Rebels had time to activate the
deflector shield
protecting Echo Base, rendering orbital bombardment impossible. As the Alliance prepared for evacuation, Imperial troops disembarked on the surface of Hoth, beyond the range of the energy shields. Once there, several legions of
snowtroopers
advanced on Echo Base. A squadron of All Terrain Armored Transports under the command of General
Maximilian Veers
was tasked with destroying the massive generators powering the Rebel base's shield.
Perimeter Outpost Delta
fell first with Sergeant Hazram Namir, Roja, and Beak being forced to retreat back to the main base to find Captain Micha Evon and Everi Chalis.
Rebel snowspeeders engage the AT-ATs of Blizzard Force during the Battle of Hoth.
Luke, who was promoted to Commander by Mothma, led
Rogue Squadron
of snowspeeders
against
General Veers' armored transports. By using a harpoon gun and tow-cable, the Rebels managed to bring down one of the transports, but Skywalker's snowspeeder was shot down. Unlike his gunner,
Dak Ralter
, the Rogue commander survived the accident. With the help of his
lightsaber
and a grenade, he still managed to destroy another walker. Despite the Rebels' best efforts to delay Veers' armored transports, the Imperial general successfully blew up the protective shield generator, allowing Darth Vader and his men to enter Echo Base. While the Rebel command personnel and material was loaded into transports and whisked away just in time, the unprepared Alliance soldiers engaged the Imperials in conventional warfare. Namir and his two men got back to the main base to find Chalis with and Captain Evon, who was unconscious. They then encountered Darth Vader who killed Captain Evon, Roja, and Beak. Namir and Chalis escaped on a shuttle with Chalis' clearance codes.
Unable to reach a transport, Princess Leia Organa, Han Solo, Chewbacca, and the droid C-3PO took their flight in the
Millennium Falcon
. The Alliance delayed the Imperial troops long enough to get its most important staff off the planet, and its ground-based
ion cannon
temporarily disabled all ships of Death Squadron, preventing them from attacking the escaping transports. All in all, the Empire still won a major victory on Hoth, as the Alliance was routed from its base once again and barely escaped Death Squadron's blockade.
The Imperial victory left the Alliance scattered and General Philap Bygar was killed during or after the battle when running from the Imperials.
Rebel Alliance on the run
Organa, Solo, Chewbacca, and C-3PO were on the run on the
Millennium Falcon
. They evaded many
Imperial
-class Star Destroyers
before escaping the clutches of Captain
Lorth Needa
. They then traveled to
Cloud City
on the gas giant
Bespin
to meet with Solo's old friend
Lando Calrissian
. Calrissian had the
Millennium Falcon
repaired but when the time was right, he betrayed them, handing them over to Darth Vader, who wanted to set a trap for Luke Skywalker. He had Solo frozen in
carbonite
as Skywalker came to Cloud City with R2-D2. Vader then confronted Skywalker, and after defeating him in a duel, revealed that he was his father. Meanwhile, Calrissian had his security turn on the Empire and Cloud City descended into chaos.
Skywalker ran from Vader and was rescued by the two as they escaped Cloud City with Chewbacca, C-3PO, and R2-D2. Solo was taken to be
Jabba
the
Hutt
by Boba Fett, who had initially tracked them to Bespin.
The
Second Division
of the Rebel Fleet came to be based off a
temporary base
in the Outer Rim on
Panisia
.
Although the Alliance had demonstrated strength on occasions, especially in destroying the Death Star, many still strongly doubted the rebels' ability to win the war. The thief
Kay Vess
and her colleague
ND-5
, a
BX-series droid commando
, were examples. However, others argued the opposite. The Imperial Governor of the moon
Toshara
,
Thorden
, strongly believed that the rebels would triumph over the Empire, leading him to prepare to create his own government on Toshara in the chaos that would follow the shift in power in the galaxy.
Operation Ringbreaker
"
Operation Ringbreaker has been vetted by Alliance Intelligence. Its goal is to shut down the naval shipyards at Kuat.
"
―Admiral Gial Ackbar in a report to Mon Mothma
Shortly following the Battle of Hoth, the Sixty-First had found itself beheaded with their captain Micha Evon killed on Hoth and the rest of the officers
killed
in the Elochar sector. They were stranded on
Ankhural
with vital repairs being done to the
Thunderstrike
, and they needed a purpose, so Chalis and Namir (who took charge) initiated
Operation Ringbreaker
, which sought to force Imperial redeployments from the shipbuilding world of
Kuat
by assaulting worlds such as
Obumubo
,
Naator
,
Xagobah
, and the asteroid mines of the
Kuliquo belt
, thus allowing the Alliance to assault its ultimate goal. This was led by the Alliance's Sixty-First Mobile Infantry, commonly known as Twilight Company. One of the final planets in the chain before the attack on Kuat itself was the mining world of
Sullust
. The Twilight Company
attacked
the
Inyusu Tor
mineral processing facility. The facility was quickly overtaken, and victory seemed sure until Twilight Company's ship, the
Thunderstrike
, was shot down and damaged beyond repair while attempting to pick up the division.
Liberating Sullust
"
As I recall, Twilight Company already had the situation well in hand.
"
―Caluan Ematt
Twilight Company was forced to guard the facility until they could find another way off the planet. The
Imperial
-class Star Destroyer
Herald
and the ground forces advanced on them. They were aided by the local rebel cell led by
Nien Nunb
, although the tide of the battle was only truly changed when Governor Everi Chalis disabled the
Imperial
-class Star Destroyer
Herald
using a shuttle and ion mines. In the following days, an interim government would be installed in Pinyumb, while heavy losses sustained by the Sixty-First would ultimately cancel Operation Ringbreaker, allowing the company to act as a temporary police force for the Sullustan people. Their
Braha'tok
-class gunship the
Apailana's Promise
had barely survived after returning to help them against the
Herald
. Subsequent pirate broadcasts and intercepted Imperial signals indicated further insurrections across the planet, delaying the inevitable Imperial counterattack.
The Second Death Star
"
"
Operation Yellow Moon.
"
"
You see? We even have a name.
"
―Leia Organa and General Carlist Rieekan
Rebounding from their losses at Hoth after
Operation Starlight
, the Rebel Alliance formally revealed its survival by
attacking
the
Imperial Unity Day
parade on
Bar'leth
, which was being broadcast to the entire galaxy. The victory was therefore incredibly public and showcased that the Rebels took care to not hurt civilians.
After Rebel Command
learned
of the existence of a
second Death Star
from Skywalker,
the
Bothan Spynet
began to dig for more information. Emperor Palpatine found out about this and sought to set a trap for the Alliance. He let more information be fed more to the
Bothans
, with many of them dying in order to get it, and hid the fact that the Death Star II was operational. The new information revealed the location of the Death Star II,
Endor
, the shield protecting it and the shafts within it big enough for starfighters to pass through to the core.
When Alliance High Command got this information, they launched
Operation Yellow Moon
in order to distract Imperial forces across the galaxy. This was led by Princess Organa and her strike team.
Meanwhile, the rebels on the MC80 Star Cruiser
Invincible Faith
had intercepted a message from
Moff
Derrek Raythe
, which would reveal Emperor Palpatine's trap if they decrypted it in time, but they also captured Commander
Iden Versio
of the Empire's
Inferno Squad
, who let it happen so she could get rid of the message. She broke free, forced her way through the ship and deleted the message making sure no-one in the Alliance could know about the trap. Versio escaped with the help of the other members of Inferno Squad.
Triumph at Endor
"
Admiral Ackbar is right. The Death Star isn't our only enemy—time is, as well. Our attack must come before the battle station is operational—or all will be lost.
"
―Chancellor Mon Mothma
In 4 ABY,
the Alliance to Restore the Republic was determined to deal a fatal blow to Emperor Palpatine's tyranny. The Alliance Fleet rendezvoused near Sullust to plan an attack. Thanks to its Bothan spies and learned Palpatine was overseeing the final construction stages of the new battle station.
The Death Star II in orbit over Endor during the Battle of Endor.
It was decided that a rebel strike team led by Skywalker, Organa, Solo, and Chewbacca would land on Endor in a stolen
Lambda
-class T-4a shuttle
, with the mission to deactivate the Death Star's energy defense shield. Little did they know that they fell into a trap. When they reached the shield's bunker, the Imperial Army was waiting for them. In orbit of Endor, the Alliance Fleet was ambushed by a large Imperial armada led by the
Super Star Destroyer
Executor
that emerged from hyperspace. Unable to attack the Death Star II until its shield was destroyed, the Rebel Fleet focused its attack on the Star Destroyers. Although its starfighters were able to maneuver easily around the Death Star II, they were still vulnerable to the battle station's superlaser, which destroyed the
Liberty
and the
Nautilian
.
On Endor, the rebel strike team ended up allying with the native
Ewoks
, who used their knowledge of their homeworld's forests to take the Imperial army by surprise. The strike team was finally able to destroy the shield generator after a lengthy ground battle, allowing its starfleet to attack the Empire's dreaded superweapon. General Calrissian flew the
Millennium Falcon
into the Death Star with Antilles,
Norra Wexley
,
Keir Santage
,
Jake Farrell
, and another A-wing pilot. They flew through the shafts and were pursued by several TIEs, which gunned down Keir's X-wing starfighter. Calrissian then ordered the group to split up, and Farrell, Wexley and the other A-wing pilot flew down another shaft to lure TIEs back out. Calrissian and Antilles then made it to the reactor core and destroyed the battle station's power plant before retreating back out as the Death Star began to detonate. During an attack on the
Executor
, Green Leader Commander
Arvel Crynyd
's A-wing was crippled and crashed into the bridge, killing Admiral
Firmus Piett
and his staff. Having already taken considerable damage from the Alliance's starfighters, the
Executor
failed and drifted into the Death Star's gravity well, detonating on impact.
Meanwhile, aboard the station, a blow of an entirely different kind was struck against the Empire. A captive Luke Skywalker, now a JediKnight in his own right, appealed to Vader's paternal love, convincing him to turn on his Master. Vader—once again Anakin Skywalker—seized the Imperial Head of State and hurled him down a shaft to his death, but at the cost of his own life. The Death Star II soon exploded from the damages to its core. With the loss of Emperor Palpatine and his apprentice, the destruction of the Death Star II, and significant losses inflicted on the Imperial Fleet, the Imperials were forced to withdraw. The Empire suffered a decisive defeat, leaving the Rebels to celebrate in victory.
Founding a New Republic
"
Be patient. Be strong. Fight back where you can. The Imperial war machine falls apart one gear, one gun, one stormtrooper at a time. The New Republic is coming. And we want your help to finish the fight.
"
―Leia Organa's holovid
In the days following the Battle of Endor, news of the Emperor's death spread to several worlds across the galaxy including Tatooine,
Naboo
, Bespin, and Coruscant despite many attempts by the Empire to conceal the fact and declare this information to be false. While there was much celebration,
a
riot
broke out at Coruscant's
Monument Plaza
.
With the Empire in turmoil, the Rebel Alliance launched an
assault
on an
Imperial outpost
on the far side of Endor. This attack was led by General Solo and uncovered a lot of data and communications on Imperial plans.
The Rebel Alliance was eventually reorganized into the
New Republic
. The new government, however, still had to contend with Imperial holdouts. But luckily, the Emperor's contingency plan had the Empire thrown into chaos with
Operation: Cinder
turning them on their loyal planets.
Legacy
One year after the destruction of the second Death Star,
Republic and Imperial forces fought a
major battle
on the
desert
world of
Jakku
, which saw a Republic victory and the end of the Galactic Civil War.
The Alliance also dispatched
shock troopers
to eliminate former Imperials that became
warlords
. The shock troopers were later assigned peacekeeping roles after the formation of the New Republic.
The
symbol
of the Alliance to Restore the Republic was used in the insignia of the New Republic
and later became the emblem of the
Resistance
, a military force founded by Rebel veteran Leia and made up of several
Alliance officers
, such as Ackbar and
Caluan Ematt
, to combat the
First Order
, the successor of the Empire.
During the
Bail Organa statue-dedication ceremony
in
28 ABY
,
speeches were delivered by Senators
Tai-Lin Garr
and Organa that reminded the gathered audience of the sacrifices made by the Rebel Alliance, which were further reinforced by an
air show
performed by Republic X-wings.
The Archivist
recorded in her
holocron
her belief that empires required enemies, to give their soldiers targets and a reason to enforce fear. Remarking that Palpatine was very cunning in cultivating enemies in his time as both Supreme Chancellor and Emperor, she suggested that he created the Rebellion to maintain the cycle of violence. When her holocron was later discovered by Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, they remarked that though the Archivist was incorrect regarding Palpatine being the Alliance's founder, he certainly did use it to his advantage.
Organization
Government
"
Stealing food won't help us win. Killing enemies won't, either. Against might on the scale of the Empire, conventional victory is impossible—when our objectives become purely military, we've already lost the larger fight.
"
―Captain Micha "Howl" Evon of the Sixty-First Mobile Infantry
The Alliance to Restore the Republic was a military resistance movement, which was headed by the Alliance High Command and dedicated to upholding the ideals of the Old Republic,
but also contained the
Alliance Civil Government
. The
Alliance Cabinet
served as political High Command, existing separate from the Alliance Military High Command, and represented both civilian and military interests.
It was led by a Chief of State and had six cabinet posts:
Minister of Education
,
Minister of Finance
,
Minister of Industry
,
Minister of State
,
Minister of Supply
, and
Minister of War
.
The Alliance frequently changed its base of operations, ranging from numerous worlds across the galaxy in order to avoid detection or regroup from an attack by its nemesis, the massive Galactic Empire. A
diplomatic corps
who sought to maintain friendly relations and procure support from various worlds in the galaxy was maintained.
Despite this, the Alliance had few worlds openly declare their support for the movement, as those few that did found their worlds cordoned behind Imperial blockades.
Military
"
We fight for a cause, but what we're really fighting for is each other. That's why our pilots fly into fire instead of abandoning a wingman and our commandos stand their ground rather than leave a flank unguarded. It's because they care for each other. We fight for duty, yes. But we also fight because we love each other. And that's something even more powerful.
"
―Leia Organa
Members and starfighters of the Rebel Alliance military.
Prior to the Alliance's official founding, the various rebel cells operated their own military forces. As the cells began coordinating, joint military endeavors were often overseen by cell leaders such as Jun Sato of Phoenix Group,
Cham Syndulla of the Free Ryloth movement,
and Ryder Azadi of the Lothal resistance.
Rebel cells received information from "Fulcrum" intelligence operatives
The formal
Alliance Military
was served by capable military leaders such as Admiral Gial Ackbar, and received intelligence updates through its own intelligence branch known as
Rebel Alliance Intelligence Service
.
It could also receive information through the Bothan spynet, and maintained the Alliance Fleet and
Alliance Army
, along with the Rebel Alliance Starfighter Corps.
Rebel troopers
across the galaxy fought for an end to galactic Imperial rule in units, such as the Sixty-First Mobile Infantry and
Thirty-Second Infantry
, while the Alliance Special Forces was composed of elite commandos of the trooper ranks.
Owing to the larger size of the Imperial war machine, the Alliance relied on
guerrilla warfare
,
hit-and-run tactics, and surgical strikes
instead of outright engaging in a more typical war for territory.
The Alliance Military will allow anyone in their ranks including imperial defectors, who left the Galactic Empire to join the Rebel Alliance. These individuals often made this choice after witnessing the Empire’s atrocities or experiencing personal betrayals. Imperial defector would greatly benefit the Alliance, such as:
Han Solo
,
Crix Madine
,
Alexsandr Kallus
,
Wedge Antilles
,
Derek Klivian
,
Trey Callum
,
Lindon Javes
,
Iden Versio
,
Del Meeko
,
Jan Dodonna
,
Bodhi Rook
,
Jon Vander
, and many more.
The Alliance Military was controlled by a
Commander-in-Chief
and was divided into seven sections:
Rebel Fleet Command
,
Rebel Alliance Starfighter Command
,
Sector Command
, Rebel Alliance Intelligence Service, Rebel Alliance Special Forces,
Ordnance and Supply
, and
Support Services
.
Behind the scenes
"
Before the Empire takes over, we already had these little groups out there… and they need a way to come together. And that's really where your Bail Organas and your Mon Mothmas come in. They're the way that you can galvanize these rebels, and you get a Rebel Alliance.
"
―Dave Filoni, on how the Onderon rebels help set the stage for the Rebel Alliance
Dave Filoni
, the supervising director of
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
animated television series, stated that he and
George Lucas
intended the Onderon rebels, seen in the
Onderon
arc, to be the first of many militias that were created by the Jedi during the Clone Wars, militias that would be brought together by characters such as Bail Organa and Mon Mothma to become the Rebel Alliance.
The visual design of the Rebel Alliance in
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
was modelled on the costumes of the
western genre
and the
United States Marine Corps
.
Appearances
Star Wars: Force Arena
Star Wars: Galactic Defense
Star Wars: Starfighter Missions
Queen's Peril
(and
audiobook
)
The Power of the Dark Side
Star Wars Battlefront II
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
(and
audiobook
)
Jar Jar
1
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Cavalry Has Arrived
"
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2017) 17
(Indirect mention only)
"
The Song of Winter's Heart
" —
Life Day Treasury
Rebel Rising
(and
audiobook
)
A New Dawn
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo - From Smuggler to General
"
Star Wars
(2015) 7
"
Everyone's a Critic
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Han Solo & Chewbacca
1
(Appears in flashforward(s))
Lost Stars
(and
audiobook
)
Lost Stars
webcomic
Star Wars Rebels
, Vol. 1
Leia Organa: Ordeal of the Princess
(In flashback(s))
Forces of Destiny: The Leia Chronicles
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Steps Into Shadow
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Secret Cargo
"
"
The Beast Within
" —
Star Wars Rebels Animation
3
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Double Agent Droid
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Twin Suns
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Zero Hour
"
Thrawn: Alliances
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Vader - Dark Visions
1
"
The Witch & the Wookiee
" —
Myths & Fables
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Inbrief
" —
Star Wars Insider
161
(reprinted in
Star Wars
2016 Del Rey Sampler
;
Battlefront: Twilight Company
;
Special Edition 2019
; and
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
"
The Kindling
" —
Life Day Treasury
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
(and
audiobook
)
Target Vader
1
Target Vader
3
Target Vader
4
Target Vader
5
Target Vader
6
Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire
Star Wars Rebels: Heroes of Mandalore
"
Not for Nothing
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
In the Name of the Rebellion
"
"
Never Far Behind
" —
Star Wars Rebels Magazine
39
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Occupation
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Flight of the Defender
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Kindred
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Crawler Commandeers
"
"
Red Four
" —
Marvel Comics 1000
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rebel Assault
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Jedi Night
"
Thrawn: Treason
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Rebels
— "
DUME
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Wolves and a Door
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A World Between Worlds
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A Fool's Hope
"
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Family Reunion – and Farewell
"
"
The Sand Will Provide
" —
Star Wars
(2015) 37
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 25
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
1
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
2
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
3
Star Wars Adventures
Free Comic Book Day 2019
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
4
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
5
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
1
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
2
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
3
Vader - Dark Visions
2
Vader - Dark Visions
4
Vader - Dark Visions
5
"
Hard Shutdown
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
1
(Mentioned only)
"
Power
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
2
"
Annihilated
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
3
Boba Fett — Black, White & Red
1
"
Blood Moon Uprising
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
Stolen Valor
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
"
The Baptist
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Rogue One – Jyn Erso
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Make It Stop
"
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Who Else Knows?
"
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Jedha, Kyber, Erso
"
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Rogue One: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Rogue One: Secret Mission
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Graphic Novel Adaptation
Rogue One Adaptation
1
Rogue One Adaptation
2
Rogue One Adaptation
3
Rogue One Adaptation
4
Rogue One Adaptation
5
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
"
(Mentioned only)
Rogue One Adaptation
6
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Darth Vader - Power of the Dark Side
"
"
Raymus
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Of MSE-6 and Men
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Age of Rebellion - Grand Moff Tarkin
1
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
(First appearance)
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: A New Hope
junior novelization
A New Hope
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
A New Hope
Read-Along Storybook and CD
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars Treasury: The Original Trilogy
A Leader Named Leia
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars: Heroes Path
Star Wars Battlefront
Escape from Darth Vader
"
Escape from Darth Vader
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
R2-D2 - A Loyal Droid
"
"
The Bucket
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
"
"
The Sith of Datawork
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Trouble on Tatooine
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Red One
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Hero's Journey Begins
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker - The Journey Begins
"
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Obi-Wan Kenobi
"
"
An Incident Report
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Change of Heart
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Secrets of Long Snoot
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Born in the Storm
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
A Bad Feeling About This
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
We Don't Serve Their Kind Here
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
The Chewbacca Story
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo - Galaxy's Best Smuggler
"
"
Verge of Greatness
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Added Muscle
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Eclipse
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Laina
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
"
Trapped in the Death Star!
"
The Trigger
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Rescue of Princess Leia
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia – The Rescue
"
"
Bump
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
R2-D2 and C3PO – Trash Compactor Rescue
"
"
Escape from the Death Star
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Time of Death
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Palpatine
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Contingency Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Sparks
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Battle of Yavin
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Desert Son
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
"
Duty Roster
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
"
"
Grounded
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
"
Death Star Battle
Battlefront II: Inferno Squad
(and
audiobook
)
"
By Whatever Sun
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
Princess Leia
1
"
The Angle
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears in hologram)
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Han and the Rebel Rescue
(reprinted in
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
)
(and
audiobook
)
Smuggler's Run
animated comic
Star Wars Adventures: Smuggler's Run
1
Star Wars Adventures: Smuggler's Run
2
"
Last Call at the Zero Angle
" —
Star Wars Insider
156
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
(Mentioned only)
Age of Rebellion - Han Solo
1
"
One Thousand Levels Down
" —
Star Wars Insider
151
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
(Mentioned only)
Princess Leia
3
(Mentioned only)
Princess Leia
5
Lando
1
(Mentioned only)
Lando
2
(Mentioned only)
"
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 7
"
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 8
Chewbacca
(2015) 1
Chewie and the Courageous Kid
(reprinted in
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
)
Chewbacca
(2015) 3
(Mentioned only)
"
Swoop Racers
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 21
"
The Lost Eggs of Livorno
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2018
"
Rabbit Hunt
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2020
"
The Bridge
" —
Age of Resistance Special
1
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 4
Han Solo
1
Han Solo
2
Han Solo
3
Han Solo
4
Han Solo
5
Heir to the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Luke and the Lost Jedi Temple
(and
audiobook
)
The Weapon of a Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
1
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 1
" —
Star Wars Magazine
19
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Magazine
20
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 3
" —
Star Wars Magazine
21
"
The Weapon of a Jedi, Part 4
" —
Star Wars Magazine
22
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: Commander
Star Wars
(2015) 1
Star Wars
(2015) 2
Star Wars
(2015) 3
Darth Vader
(2015) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2015) 4
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 1
Doctor Aphra: An Audiobook Original
Darth Vader
(2015) 2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Darth Vader
(2015) 3
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 5
Darth Vader
(2015) 5
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars
(2015) 6
Darth Vader
(2015) 6
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2015) 8
Star Wars
(2015) 9
Star Wars
(2015) 10
Star Wars
(2015) 11
Star Wars
(2015) 12
Darth Vader
(2015) 7
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Darth Vader
(2015) 8
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2015) 9
Darth Vader
(2015) 10
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Darth Vader
(2015) 11
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2015) 12
Darth Vader Annual
1
(Mentioned only)
Vader Down
1
Darth Vader
(2015) 13
Star Wars
(2015) 13
Darth Vader
(2015) 14
Star Wars
(2015) 14
Darth Vader
(2015) 15
Star Wars
(2015) 16
Star Wars
(2015) 17
Star Wars
(2015) 18
Star Wars
(2015) 19
Darth Vader
(2015) 16
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2015) 25
(Mentioned only)
"
Diplomatic Impunity
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
3
"
Droid Dilemma
" —
Star Wars
(2015) 25
(reprinted in
Droids Unplugged
1
)
Star Wars
(2015) 21
Star Wars
(2015) 22
Star Wars
(2015) 23
Star Wars
(2015) 24
Star Wars
(2015) 25
Star Wars
(2015) 26
Star Wars
(2015) 27
Star Wars
(2015) 28
Star Wars
(2015) 29
Star Wars
(2015) 30
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 2
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 3
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 4
(Mentioned only)
The Screaming Citadel
1
Star Wars
(2015) 31
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 7
Star Wars
(2015) 32
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 8
Star Wars
(2015) 33
"
The Trouble at Tibrin
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 4
"
The Trouble at Tibrin, Part II
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 5
Star Wars
(2015) 34
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 35
Star Wars
(2015) 36
"
Mind Your Manners
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2018
Star Wars Annual
(2015) 3
"
Shu-Torun Lives
" —
Star Wars
(2015) 50
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2015) 37
Doctor Aphra Annual
1
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 9
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 13
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 14
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 15
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 16
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 17
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 18
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 19
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 20
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 21
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 22
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 23
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 25
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 27
(Impersonated)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 30
(Appears in hologram)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 31
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2015) 38
Star Wars
(2015) 39
Star Wars
(2015) 40
Star Wars
(2015) 41
Star Wars
(2015) 42
Star Wars
(2015) 43
The Last Jedi – The Storms of Crait
1
Star Wars
(2015) 44
Star Wars
(2015) 45
Star Wars
(2015) 46
Star Wars
(2015) 47
Star Wars
(2015) 48
Star Wars
(2015) 49
Star Wars
(2015) 50
Star Wars
(2015) 51
Star Wars
(2015) 52
Star Wars
(2015) 53
Star Wars
(2015) 54
Star Wars
(2015) 55
Star Wars
(2015) 56
Star Wars
(2015) 57
Star Wars
(2015) 58
Star Wars
(2015) 59
Star Wars
(2015) 60
Star Wars
(2015) 61
Star Wars
(2015) 62
Star Wars
(2015) 63
Star Wars
(2015) 64
Star Wars
(2015) 65
Star Wars
(2015) 66
Star Wars
(2015) 67
"
For the Love of the Empire
" —
A New Legacy
1
Hyperspace Stories
2
Star Wars
(2015) 68
Star Wars
(2015) 69
Star Wars
(2015) 70
Star Wars
(2015) 71
Star Wars
(2015) 72
Star Wars
(2015) 73
Star Wars
(2015) 74
Star Wars
(2015) 75
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 32
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 33
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 34
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 35
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 36
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 37
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 38
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 39
Doctor Aphra
(2016) 40
"
Epilogue
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
"
An Echo of Victory
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Beasts of Echo Base
"
"
Gift of Light
" —
Life Day
1
"
Squad Goals, Part One
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 11
"
Squad Goals, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 12
Age of Rebellion - Boba Fett
1
Hyperspace Stories
7
"
A Matter Of Perception
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 22
"
A Rebel Bounty
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2020
Battlefront: Twilight Company
(and
audiobook
)
"
Hunger
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Luke on the Bright Side
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
In Service to the Empire
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
"
Two Sides to Every Sortie
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
"
In the Lair of the Dragon Slug
" —
Tales from the Rancor Pit
Forces of Destiny—Leia
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
junior novelization
The Empire Strikes Back
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
The Empire Strikes Back
Read-Along Storybook and CD
AT-AT Attack!
"
The Battle of Hoth
" —
5-Minute Star Wars Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Eyes of the Empire
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
A Good Kiss
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Survival on Hoth
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Ion Control
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Rogue Two
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
She Will Keep Them Warm
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. the Wampa - Cavern Escape
"
"
Size Matters Not
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Heroes of the Rebellion
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Battle of Hoth
"
"
AT-AT Attack!
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Truest Duty
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Kendal
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Against All Odds
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. Imperial Walkers - Commander on Hoth
"
"
Beyond Hope
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2020) 1
"
An Unusual Hiding Place
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
Rendezvous Point
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Use the Force!
"
The Trial of Dagobah
" —
Age of Rebellion Special
1
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
"
"
The Final Order
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker Trains with Master Yoda
"
"
Faith in an Old Friend
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Yoda – The Jedi Master
"
"
Disturbance
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Amara Kel's Rules for TIE Pilot Survival (Probably)
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
The Path Ahead
"
"
Vergence
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
STET!
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
Wait for It
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Boba Fett - The Bounty Hunter
"
"
Betrayal at Bespin
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Rendezvous at Bespin
"
"
No Time for Poetry
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Captured on Cloud City
"
Into the Clouds
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
Due on Batuu
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Witness
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Revelation
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Clash on Cloud City
"
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
"
"
The Man Who Built Cloud City
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Bespin Escape
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Backup Backup Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 1
Star Wars
(2020) 2
"
Right-Hand Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars
(2020) 3
Star Wars
(2020) 4
Star Wars
(2020) 5
Star Wars
(2020) 6
Darth Vader
(2020) 5
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 6
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 8
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 10
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 11
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Bounty Hunters
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Bounty Hunters
3
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
6
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 7
Star Wars
(2020) 8
Bounty Hunters
7
Star Wars
(2020) 9
Star Wars
(2020) 10
Star Wars
(2020) 11
Star Wars
(2020) 12
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 1
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 6
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 7
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 8
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
8
Bounty Hunters
9
Bounty Hunters
10
War of the Bounty Hunters Alpha
1
(In carbonite)
Star Wars
(2020) 13
Bounty Hunters
11
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
12
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
War of the Bounty Hunters
1
Bounty Hunters
13
Star Wars
(2020) 14
Darth Vader
(2020) 12
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 15
Darth Vader
(2020) 14
(In carbonite)
Darth Vader
(2020) 13
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
14
(In carbonite)
(In flashback(s))
War of the Bounty Hunters
2
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 12
(In carbonite)
Bounty Hunters
16
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 13
(In carbonite)
War of the Bounty Hunters
3
Star Wars
(2020) 16
Darth Vader
(2020) 16
War of the Bounty Hunters
4
Star Wars
(2020) 17
War of the Bounty Hunters
5
Darth Vader
(2020) 17
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 15
War of the Bounty Hunters – IG-88
1
(In carbonite)
Star Wars
(2020) 18
Crimson Reign
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 19
Star Wars
(2020) 20
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 16
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
18
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 21
Crimson Reign
2
Star Wars
(2020) 22
Star Wars
(2020) 23
Star Wars
(2020) 24
Crimson Reign
3
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 18
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 20
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 21
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 24
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 25
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
25
(Mentioned only)
Bounty Hunters
26
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Outlaws
Crimson Reign
5
(In carbonite)
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 26
Star Wars
(2020) 27
Star Wars
(2020) 28
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 21
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 23
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 24
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 25
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 26
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 27
Revelations
(2022) 1
(Vision to Darth Vader)
Hidden Empire
2
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 28
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 29
Hidden Empire
4
(Mentioned only)
Hidden Empire
5
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 30
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 31
Bounty Hunters
30
(In flashback(s))
Bounty Hunters
31
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 29
Star Wars
(2020) 30
Star Wars
(2020) 31
Star Wars
(2020) 32
Star Wars
(2020) 33
Darth Vader
(2020) 32
(In flashback(s))
Darth Vader
(2020) 34
(Vision to Sabé)
Darth Vader
(2020) 35
(In flashback(s))
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 32
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 33
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 34
Star Wars
(2020) 34
Star Wars
(2020) 35
Bounty Hunters
36
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2020) 36
"
Return to Echo Base
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
"
The Book of Ajax
" —
Dark Droids: D-Squad
1
(In flashback(s))
Dark Droids
1
Star Wars
(2020) 37
Dark Droids
2
Dark Droids
3
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 36
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 37
Dark Droids: D-Squad
1
Dark Droids: D-Squad
2
Dark Droids: D-Squad
3
Dark Droids: D-Squad
4
Star Wars
(2020) 38
Star Wars
(2020) 39
Dark Droids
4
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 38
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 39
Star Wars
(2020) 40
Darth Vader
(2020) 41
Dark Droids
5
Star Wars
(2020) 41
Bounty Hunters
41
(In carbonite)
Doctor Aphra
(2020) 40
Star Wars
(2020) 42
Star Wars
(2020) 43
Star Wars
(2020) 44
"
A Trick of the Mind
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
(Voice only)
Star Wars
(2020) 45
Star Wars
(2020) 46
Star Wars
(2020) 47
Star Wars
(2020) 48
Star Wars
(2020) 49
"
Tool of the Empire
" —
Revelations
(2023) 1
Darth Vader
(2020) 42
Darth Vader
(2020) 43
Darth Vader
(2020) 44
(Mentioned only)
Darth Vader
(2020) 45
(In flashback(s))
"
The Curse
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2024:
Star Wars
1
(Appears in hologram)
Darth Vader
(2020) 46
Darth Vader
(2020) 47
Darth Vader
(2020) 48
Darth Vader
(2020) 49
Darth Vader
(2020) 50
Bounty Hunters
42
"
Return to Hoth
" —
Darth Vader – Black, White & Red
4
Return of the Jedi – The Empire
1
(Mentioned only)
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
(and
audiobook
)
Leia and the Great Island Escape
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Lando
1
Hyperspace Stories
12
Tales From the Nightlands
2
Age of Rebellion - Luke Skywalker
1
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Bounty Hunted
"
Age of Rebellion - Princess Leia
1
Tales from the Rancor Pit
"
Wolf Trap
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Trooper Trouble
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Return of the Jedi – The Rebellion
1
"
Dune Sea Songs of Salt and Moonlight
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Galactic Tales: Valnir and Laizhu
" —
Star Wars Insider
222
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
Star Wars: Return of the Jedi
junior novelization
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi
Little Golden Book
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi
Read-Along Storybook and CD
Rescue from Jabba's Palace
"
Rescue from Jabba's Palace
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Jabba's Palace
1
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Leia and Han - The Han Rescue
"
"
The Plan
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Kickback
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Fortuna Favors the Bold
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Satisfaction
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears through imagination)
"
Reputation
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Fancy Man
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
My Mouth Never Closes
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Chronicler
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Kernels and Husks
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
From a Certain Point of View
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
No Contingency
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Burden of Leadership
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Gone to the Winner's Circle
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Divine (?) Intervention
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Buy-In
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Ballad of Nanta
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
TIE Fighter
1
TIE Fighter
2
(Mentioned only)
TIE Fighter
3
TIE Fighter
4
(Mentioned only)
"
Return to Dagobah
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Light That Falls
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Masters
" —
Stories of Jedi and Sith
(and
audiobook
)
"
When Fire Marked the Sky
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Extra Five Percent
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Blade Squadron
" —
Star Wars Insider
149
–
150
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
"
Flight and Fight!
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi: The Battle of Endor
Ewoks Join the Fight
"
One Normal Day
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Princess Leia - An Unexpected Friend
"
"
Leia and the Ewoks
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Ewok Escape
"
"
The Man Who Captured Luke Skywalker
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Ackbar
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
"
The Impossible Flight of Ash Angels
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Ending Protocol
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Last Flight
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Twenty and Out
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Impact
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Final Duel
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Battle for Endor
" —
The Original Trilogy Stories
(and
audiobook
)
"
The Emperor's Red Guards
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures
— "
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
"
"
The Levers of Power
" —
The Rise of the Empire
Shattered Empire
1
"
To the Last
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Then Fall, Sidious
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Brotherhood
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
"
Galactic Tales: Shockwave
" —
Star Wars Insider
220
"
Galactic Tales: Lost in the Woods
" —
Star Wars Insider
221
"
The Veteran
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
1
"
The Rising
" —
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
1
(In flashback(s))
"
The Steadfast Soldier
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
An Imperial Feast
"
TIE Fighter
5
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Traps and Tribulations
"
Star Wars Forces of Destiny
— "
Chopper and Friends
"
The Princess and the Scoundrel
(and
audiobook
)
Return of the Jedi – Max Rebo
1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
2
(In flashback(s))
Ewoks
(2024) 1
(In flashback(s))
Ewoks
(2024) 2
(Mentioned only)
Ewoks
(2024) 3
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Ewoks
(2024) 4
(Mentioned only)
Shattered Empire
2
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
3
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Insurgency Rising
4
(Mentioned only)
"
A Race for Answers
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 23
Shattered Empire
3
"
Turning Point
" —
Star Wars Insider
169
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
Star Wars: Uprising
"
Blade Squadron: Zero Hour
" —
Star Wars Insider
160
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
)
"
Hare-Brained Heist
" —
Star Wars Adventures Annual
2019
(Mentioned only)
Alphabet Squadron
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Aftermath
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
1
(Picture only)
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
3
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
5
(Indirect mention only)
Shattered Empire
4
Star Wars: Squadrons
The Light You Bring
on
Electronic Arts
'
official website
(
article
) (
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Count to Three
on
Electronic Arts
'
official website
(
article
) (
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Shadow Fall: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(In flashback(s))
Aftermath: Life Debt
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
1
(In flashback(s))
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
2
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
3
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
"
The Ghost Ship
" —
Star Wars Adventures: Destroyer Down
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Republic Under Siege
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
1
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
2
(Mentioned only)
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Aftermath: Empire's End
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
3
(Mentioned only)
Battle of Jakku — Last Stand
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
2
(Mentioned only)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
3
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
4
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent
5
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars
(2025) 1
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2025) 2
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
(2025) 3
(In carbonite)
(In flashback(s))
Hyperspace Stories Annual—Jaxxon 2023
(Mentioned only)
Last Shot
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Hunters: Battle for the Arena
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: Season 1: Volume 1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 4: Sanctuary
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 3
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
5
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
The Mandalorian: The Manga
, Vol. 4
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 7: The Reckoning
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
7
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 8: Redemption
"
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian: A Clan of Two
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian
8
(Mentioned only)
The Mandalorian Season 2
Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 15: The Believer
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 18: The Mines of Mandalore
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 19: The Convert
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 21: The Pirate
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part One: Master and Apprentice
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Two: Toil and Trouble
"
(Emblem only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Seven: Dreams and Madness
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: Ahsoka
— "
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
"
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron: Free Fall
(and
audiobook
)
(Appears through imagination)
Shadow of the Sith
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Scorched
" —
Star Wars Insider
165
(reprinted in
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
(2020) 50
(In flashback(s))
Bloodline
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Galactic Tales: A Loose Connection
" —
Star Wars Insider
235
(as doll)
The Legends of Luke Skywalker
(and
audiobook
)
"
All Creatures Great and Small
"
(reprinted in
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
)
(Mentioned only)
"
True Love
" —
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
(Mentioned only)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
2
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
3
(In flashback(s))
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
4
(In flashback(s))
Han Solo - Hunt for the Falcon
5
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Life Day
1
(Mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
"
Kidnapped!
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 24
(Mentioned only)
Before the Awakening
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Force Collector
(and
audiobook
)
(Vision to Karr Nuq Sin)
Age of Resistance - General Hux
1
(Mentioned only)
Join the Resistance
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
7
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
8
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
9
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
13
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
14
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
17
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
18
(Mentioned only)
Poe Dameron
20
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The Recruit
"
(Mentioned only)
"
The Recruit - Part 1
" —
Star Wars Resistance Animation
1
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Fuel for the Fire
"
(Mentioned only)
"
Fuel for the Fire
" —
Star Wars Resistance Animation
4
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi: Cobalt Squadron
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
(Mentioned only)
"
Destroyer Down
" —
Star Wars Adventures: Destroyer Down
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
novelization
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens
Little Golden Book
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Graphic Novel Adaptation
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens: Rey's Story
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens: Finn's Story
(Mentioned only)
The Force Awakens Adaptation
2
(In flashback(s))
Finn & Rey Escape!
(and
audiobook
)
Han & Chewie Return!
(In flashback(s))
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Adventures
Ashcan
(In flashback(s))
"
The Ride
" —
Canto Bight
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars
: Episode VIII
The Last Jedi
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
2
(Indirect mention only)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
5
(Mentioned only)
The Last Jedi Adaptation
6
(Mentioned only)
"
Life Lessons
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 26
(In flashback(s))
"
Legacy of Vaneé
" —
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
Legacy of Vader
3
(Vision to Kylo Ren)
Legacy of Vader
6
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Rendezvous Point
"
(Mentioned only)
Resistance Reborn
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Path of the Lightsaber
, Vol. 1
(Appears through imagination)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
Breakout
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
The New World
"
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Resistance
— "
No Place Safe
"
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
2
(Mentioned only)
Allegiance
4
(In flashback(s))
Spark of the Resistance
(and
audiobook
)
(Indirect mention only)
"
Flight of the Falcon, Part 3: Home Again
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 16
(In flashback(s))
Star Wars
: Datapad
(Mentioned only)
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
1
(In flashback(s))
Galaxy's Edge – Echoes of the Empire
2
(In flashback(s))
"
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 2
"
Tales from Wild Space: Adventures in Wookiee-Sitting
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 3
"
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 4
(Appears through imagination)
"
Tales from Wild Space: Look Before You Leap
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 7
"
Tales from Wild Space: Gonk!
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 8
"
Tales from Wild Space: Family Affair, Part 2
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 11
(Mentioned only)
"
Tales from Wild Space: The Heist
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 21
(Mentioned only)
(In flashback(s))
"
Tales from Wild Space: A Tauntaun Tail
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 22
(In flashback(s))
"
The Lost Stories, Part 3
" —
Star Wars Adventures
(2017) 32
(Picture only)
The Jaws of Jakku
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Whills
" —
From a Certain Point of View
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
The Whills Strike Back
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
"
Return of the Whills
" —
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
(and
audiobook
)
(Mentioned only)
Ghosts of Dathomir
(as Alliance)
Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes
(Non-
canonical
appearance)
Non-canon appearances
LEGO Star Wars: A New Hope
DK Reader
Star Wars: Battle Pod
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Exit from Endor
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Mission to Mos Eisley
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Flight of the Falcon
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales
— "
Gambit on Geonosis
"
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A Hero Discovered
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Zander's Joyride
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Lost Treasure of Cloud City
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Crossing Paths
"
Star Wars: Trials on Tatooine
(Mentioned only in opening crawl)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Showdown on Hoth
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Duel of Destiny
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return of the Kyber Saber
"
Rogue One: Recon A Star Wars 360 Experience
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Beware, the Gamorrean Flu!
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Home One
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Rowan's Secret Adventure
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Thrown Into Battle
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Zander Freemaker, Superstar Pilot Guy!
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A New Home
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Trouble on Tibalt
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Tower of Alistan Nor
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Embersteel Blade
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Storms of Taul
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return to the Wheel
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Lost Crystals of Qalydon
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
The Pit and the Pinnacle
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Flight of the Arrowhead
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
A Perilous Rescue
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Escape from Coruscant
"
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Free Fall
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
— "
Return of the Return of the Jedi
"
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
Scouting for Leia
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars
— "
A Mission with Maz
"
(Mentioned only)
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Reindeer Walker
"
"
The Dragonsnake Saves R2-D2
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(and
audiobook
)
LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales
(In flashback(s))
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
New Year's Hothin' Eve
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Droid Holiday Hustle
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
May the Fourth
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Vader's Vacation
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
Chewie's Holiday Cheer Up
"
LEGO STAR WARS: Celebrate the Season
— "
LEGO Star Wars - 25 Years
"
Star Wars: Galactic Siege
Sources
The Clone Wars
Episode Guide: Shadow of
Malevolence
on
StarWars.com
(
original site
is defunct)
Star Wars: A Galaxy at War
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
A-wing fighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Ackbar
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Alderaan cruiser
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
B-wing fighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Biggs Darklighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Captain Antilles
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Chewbacca
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Death Star
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Lando Calrissian
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Millennium Falcon
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Mon Calamari
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Mon Calamari star cruiser
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Rebel Alliance
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
(First identified as Alliance to Restore the Republic)
Rebel Pilots
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Rebel Troopers
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
snowspeeder
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
X-wing starfighter
in the
Encyclopedia
(
original site
is defunct)
Star Wars Rebels
and More at San Diego Comic-Con 2014 - UPDATED!
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SDCC 2014: "The Heroes of
Star Wars Rebels
" Panel - Liveblog
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Databank A-Z: Ask Aak–Stass Allie
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Darth Vader
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial High Command
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Databank A-Z: Alzoc III–Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boba Fett
Weapons & Uniforms: Bounty Hunters
"
Rebel Rouser: Greg Weisman
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
(reprinted in
Special Edition 2017
)
"
The Making of
A New Dawn
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
Classic Moment: Lando's Second Surprise
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
"
Blaster
" —
Star Wars Insider
152
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Helmets: Imperial Stormtroopers
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Stormtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: A Daring Rescue
UPDATED: Crush the Rebellion or Restore Freedom in
Star Wars: Commander
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Galactic Defense
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Helmets: Luke Skywalker — X-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Luke Skywalker (X-Wing Pilot)
Weapons & Uniforms: Alliance Pilots
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Databank A-Z: Bongo–Bowcaster
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Helmets: Scout Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scout Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Ewoks
Death Troopers Invade
Star Wars: Commander
- Exclusive!
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Helmets: TIE Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: TIE Fighter Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: The Imperial Fleet
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Databank A-Z: Wedge Antilles–Azmorigan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Helmets: C-3PO, Protocol Droid
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: C-3PO
Weapons & Uniforms: Droid Servants
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Grievous
Databank A-Z: Master Chief Bric–C-3PO
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Databank A-Z: C-21–Chandrila
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Helmets: AT-AT Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Ground Assault on Hoth
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-AT Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Droids
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Cody
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Chewbacca–Cloud City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Emperor's Royal Guard
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Dignitaries
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Databank A-Z: Cosians–Dagobah
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Gunner
Highlights of the Saga: The Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Boushh
Databank A-Z: Cut Lawquane–Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jango Fett
Databank A-Z: 'Occupier' Tank–Oola
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bacara
Databank A-Z: Dooku–Dwarf Spider Droids
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
2-1B - Medical Droid
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Ackbar - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Motti - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Ozzel - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Admiral Piett - Imperial Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Biggs Darklighter - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
C-3PO - Asteroid Repair
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
C-3PO - Jabba the Hutt's Interpreter
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
C-3PO - Protocol Droid (ANH)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Captain Antilles - Tantive IV Captain
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chewbacca - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chewbacca - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chief Bast - Imperial Aide
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Chief Chirpa - Ewok Chief
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Dak Ralter - Snowspeeder Gunner
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Search For Skywalker
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Sith Lord (ANH)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Darth Vader - Sith Lord (ROTS)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Endor Rebel Trooper - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Ewoks - Creature
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
FX-7 - Medical Droid
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Garven Dreis - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Madine - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Rieekan - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Tagge - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
General Veers - Galactic Empire
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Han Solo - Corellian Smuggler
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Han Solo - Rebel Captain
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Han Solo - Rebel General
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Hobbie Klivian - Snowspeeder Gunner
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Imperial Officer - Soldier
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jabba the Hutt - Gangster
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Jan Dodonna - Rebel General
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
John D. Branon - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Lando Calrissian - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Logray - Ewok Medicine Man
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker - Jedi Knight
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker - Rebel Commander
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Momaw Nadon - Cantina Patron
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Mon Mothma - Rebel Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Nien Nunb - Millennium Falcon Co-Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Alderaan Senator
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ROTJ)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
R2-D2 - Astromech Droid (ESB)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
R2-D2 - Jabba's Sail Barge
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Rebel Fleet Trooper - Rebel Alliance
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Teebo - Ewok Scout
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Toryn Farr - Communications Officer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Uncle Owen - Moisture Farmer
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wedge Antilles - Rogue Leader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wedge Antilles - Snowspeeder pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wedge Antilles - X-Wing Pilot
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Wicket W. Warrick - Ewok Scout
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Base Series 1
,
Card:
Zev Senesca - Snowspeeder Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 501st Legion Stormtrooper
Helmets: 501st Legion Stormtroopers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Clone Pilot
Databank A-Z: Moraband–Muftak
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Anakin Skywalker
Databank A-Z: Ewoks–Finn
Ultimate Star Wars
Star Wars Rebels: The Ultimate Guide
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Databank A-Z: GA-97–Geonosis
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Helmets: Lando Calrissian
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Lando Calrissian
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Helmets: Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Tantive IV
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Pilot
Databank A-Z: Poe Dameron–Delta 7-B
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Databank A-Z: Hassk Triplets–Holograms
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Helmets: Rebel Commando
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Coming Soon to Your Personal Jedi Archives: Journey to
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
- Sneak Peek!
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: MagnaGuard
Databank A-Z: The HoloNet–General Hux
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tusken Raider
Databank A-Z: Rush Clovis–Coruscant
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Helmets: Y-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Y-wing Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Yavin Base
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Gree
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Star Pilot
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Ships of the Galaxy
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Coruscant Emergency Crew
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Jelucan–Lord Junn
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Helmets: Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Empire Strikes Back!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Snowtrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Fleet
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
39
Guide to the Galaxy: Hoth Asteroid Belt
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Databank A-Z: Dengar–Domino Squad
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Helmets: AT-ST Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-ST Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Utapau Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Neyo
Databank A-Z: Admiral Kilian–Kowakian
The Art of Star Wars: Uprising
(as Rebel Alliance)
Rey's Survival Guide
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Star Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Databank A-Z: Kel Dor–Ki-Adi-Mundi
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Helmets: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Highlights of the Saga: Attack of the Wampa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Hoth Rebel Soldier
Weapons & Uniforms: Echo Base
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Odd Ball
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Lead by Example
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: AT-RT Driver
Databank A-Z: Luggabeast–Malakili
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Thire
Databank A-Z: Baze Malbus–Darth Maul
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zam Wesell
Databank A-Z: Kwazel Maw–Sly Moore
Nexus of Power
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Stormtrooper
Databank A-Z: First Order–Fyrnocks
Special Modifications
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Bly
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Expert Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Databank A-Z: OOM-9–Viceroy Bail Organa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Phasma
Weapons & Uniforms: The New Republic
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
69
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Partnerships
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kylo Ren
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Databank A-Z: Zeb Orrelios–Pau City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Snowtrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 4-LOM
Weapons & Uniforms: Bespin's Cloud City
Savage Spirits
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Flametrooper
Databank A-Z: Leia Organa
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Databank A-Z: Max Rebo–Sabacc
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Helmets: Ezra Bridger
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ezra Bridger
Weapons & Uniforms: The Lothal Rebels
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Zuckuss
Databank A-Z: Admiral Yularen–Zarro
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Helmets: Poe Dameron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Poe Dameron
Weapons & Uniforms: The Resistance
Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Beginner Game
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Databank A-Z: The X-wing Starfighter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Helmets: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: A-wing Fighter Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Green Squadron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order TIE Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Fire on Jakku
Star Wars: Aliens of the Galaxy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 10 Things You Might Not Know About Mon Calamari
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Biggs Darklighter
Helmets: Biggs Darklighter
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Inquisitor
Databank A-Z:
Soulless One
–Super Battle Droids
Star Wars: Complete Locations
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#022: Jyn Erso (Jedha)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Databank A-Z: Darth Vader
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Helmets: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Highlights of the Saga: The Darksaber
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sabine Wren
Weapons & Uniforms: Mandalorians
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Databank A-Z: Luke Skywalker–Han Solo
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Helmets: Jessika Pava
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jess Pava
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Endless Vigil
Poe Dameron: Flight Log
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Guavian Death Guard
Databank A-Z: Hera Syndulla–Ahsoka Tano
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Databank A-Z:
Providence
-class–Raxus
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Helmets: Resistance Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Resistance Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Princess Leia: Royal Rebel
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#031: AT-AT Driver
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Sidon Ithano
Helmets: Sidon Ithano
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Art of Coloring: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Star Wars: Rogue One: Rebel Dossier
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Databank A-Z:
Tantive IV
–Tatooine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Helmets: Nien Nunb
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Highlights of the Saga: Operation Yellow Moon
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Nien Nunb
Weapons & Uniforms: The Adventures of Nien Nunb
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
AT-ST
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Abandon All Hope
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars
: Destiny
—
Awakenings
Card:
Admiral Ackbar
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Databank A-Z: Valorum–Vassek
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Helmets: Captain Rex
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Captain Rex
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Much to Learn You Still Have: Talking
Rogue One
Aliens with Pablo Hidalgo
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Kashyyyk Clone Trooper
Databank A-Z: U'Il–Luminara Unduli
Where in the Galaxy Are the Worlds of
Rogue One
?
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
1
Understanding Robotics: LEDs
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Building the Galaxy: Motion Control Filming
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
3
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
4
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
4
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
4
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
(Picture only)
No Disintegrations
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Ponds
Databank A-Z: Xev Xrexus–Yavin 4
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Helmets: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: 2-1B Surgical Droid
Weapons & Uniforms: 2-1Bs in the Galaxy
Darth Vader: Sith Lord
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
5
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
6
Droid Directory: EGL Power Droids
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
7
Building the Galaxy: The
Star Wars
Stunt Team
(Picture only)
Star Wars: Build Your Own R2-D2
8
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
(Picture only)
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Helmets: Wedge Antilles
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Wedge Antilles
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Naboo Royal Guard
Databank A-Z: Tauntaun–TIE Craft
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Databank A-Z: Vulptex–Wampas
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Galactic Marine
Weapons & Uniforms: The Jedi Purge
Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Databank A-Z: Sabine Wren
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Ello Asty
Weapons & Uniforms: Black Squadron
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Helmets: Shoretrooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on the Beach
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Shoretrooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Creators of the Death Star
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Helmets: Death Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Death Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: A Perilous Mission
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Databank A-Z: Saesee Tiin–Toydaria
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Target: The Holy City
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tank Trooper
Weapons & Uniforms: Saw Gerrera's Partisans
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Databank A-Z: Zabrak–Zillo Beast
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Helmets: Jek Porkins
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Jek Porkins
Weapons & Uniforms: Rebel Leaders at Yavin 4
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Helmets: Pilot/Training Helmet
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Blaster Training Helmet
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Helmets: Imperial Ground Crew
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Imperial Ground Crew
Weapons & Uniforms: Rogue One Commandos
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Databank A-Z: U-Wing–V-Wing
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Helmets: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Scarif Rebel Trooper
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Wobani
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Databank A-Z: Zam Wesell–Wexley
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Helmets: General Merrick
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: General Merrick
Weapons & Uniforms: Blue Squadron
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Highlights of the Saga: Saving D'Qar
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: First Order Engineer
Weapons & Uniforms: The
Finalizer
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Helmets: Tam Posla
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Tam Posla
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Databank A-Z: Wicket Warrick–Weequay
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Helmets: Commander Wolffe
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Commander Wolffe
Weapons & Uniforms: Grand Admiral Thrawn
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Databank A-Z: Grand Master Yoda
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Silvanie Phest
Weapons & Uniforms: The Ashes of Jedha
Créatures et peuples de la galaxie
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Helmets: B-Wing Pilot
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of the Blade Wing
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: B-wing Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Blade Squadron
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
The Last Jedi: Bomber Command
Star Wars: Lightsaber Battles
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Darth Vader
Character: Darth Vader
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Bust Collection
: Stormtrooper
Character: Stormtroopers
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Card:
Luke Skywalker
Reissued in
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansion
Star Wars: Legion
Core Set
Card:
Rebel Troopers
Reissued in
Rebel Troopers Unit Expansion
and
Rebel Troopers Upgrade Expansion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars: Force Collection
Star Wars: Force Collection
(Card:
Admiral Ackbar
(★))
Star Wars: Force Collection
(Card:
Tigran Jamiro
(★))
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Star Wars: X-Wing Miniatures Game
—
Saw's Renegades Expansion Pack
Card:
Leevan Tenza — X-Wing
Star Wars: The Black Series
(Pack:
#070: Han Solo (Bespin)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
Black Squadron Ace — TIE/ln Fighter
Reissued in
TIE/ln Fighter Expansion Pack
and
Galactic Empire Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
Blue Squadron Escort — T-65 X-Wing
Reissued in
T-65 X-Wing Expansion Pack
and
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
R2-D2 (Rebel)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
R5-D8
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
Core Set
Card:
Red Squadron Veteran — T-65 X-Wing
Reissued in
T-65 X-Wing Expansion Pack
and
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Star Wars
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Rocket Science: Fighter Design
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
1
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
BTL-A4 Y-Wing Expansion Pack
Card:
Gray Squadron Bomber — BTL-A4 Y-Wing
Reissued in
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Baze Malbus
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Bistan
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Blue Squadron Pilot — A/SF-01 B-Wing
Reissued in
A/SF-01 B-Wing Expansion Pack
and
Phoenix Cell Squadron Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Blue Squadron Scout — UT-60D U-Wing
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
C-3PO (Crew/Rebel)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Cassian Andor — UT-60D U-Wing
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Cassian Andor (Crew)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Chewbacca (Crew/Rebel)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
"Chopper" (Astromech)
Reissued in
Ghost
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
"Chopper" (Crew)
Reissued in
Ghost
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Ezra Bridger (Gunner)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Ghost
Reissued in
Ghost
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Han Solo (Gunner/Rebel)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Jyn Erso
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Kanan Jarrus (Crew)
Reissued in
Ghost
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Lando Calrissian — Modified YT-1300 Light Freighter
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Lando Calrissian (Crew/Rebel)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
and
YT-2400 Light Freighter Expansion Packs
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Leia Organa (Crew/Rebel)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Luke Skywalker (Gunner)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Millennium Falcon
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Nien Nunb (Crew)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
R2-D2 (Crew)
Reissued in
Millennium Falcon
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Rebel Scout — HWK-290 Light Freighter
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Sabine Wren (Crew)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
"Zeb" Orrelios (Crew)
Reissued in
Ghost
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Card:
Moldy Crow
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
T-65 X-Wing Expansion Pack
Card:
Selfless
Reissued in
Rebel Alliance Conversion Kit
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars: Women of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Droidography
Star Wars: Smuggler's Guide
2018 Topps Finest
Star Wars
Card: Bo-Katan Kryze
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
24
Starfighter Aces: CR-978 — Elite But Expendable
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Bossk
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
28
Starfighter Aces: K-2SO — Reprogrammed as a Rebel
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Rebellion
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Allies and Adversaries
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Empire
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Rise of the Separatists
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The Death Star
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars By the Numbers
:
Every Droid in Star Wars
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Gadgets and Gear
Star Wars: Creatures Big & Small
(Picture only)
LEGO
Star Wars
(Set:
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
)
LEGO
Star Wars
(Set:
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
)
Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
:
The First Order
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Star Wars By the Numbers
:
Every Type of Ship in Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Carlist Rieekan
Reissued in
Tantive IV
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Echo Base Evacuees — GR-75 Medium Transport
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Jan Dodonna
Reissued in
Tantive IV
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Raymus Antilles
Reissued in
Tantive IV
Expansion Pack
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Huge Ship Conversion Kit
Card:
Stalwart Captain
Reissued in
Tantive IV
,
C-ROC Cruiser
, and
Trident
-class Assault Ship Expansion Packs
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Jedi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Alexsandr Kallus
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Chief Chirpa
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Colonel Yularen
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Darth Vader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Farns Monsbee
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
General Jan Dodonna
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Gooti Terez
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Grand Admiral Thrawn
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Jyn Erso
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
K-2SO
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Luke Skywalker
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Princess Leia
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Tessek
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series
,
Card:
Wicket W. Warrick
Star Wars: Build Your Own X-Wing
62
Starfighter Aces: R2-D2 — Going Solo
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Dark Side Rising
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
Hotshots and Aces Reinforcements Pack
Card:
K-2SO (Crew)
Starships and Speeders
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
97
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#28: Governor Pryce
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#50: Mon Mothma
(backup link not available)
2020 Topps Women of
Star Wars
Card:
#93: Toryn Farr
(backup link not available)
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Directing
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Legacy
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Cast
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Practical
"
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Process
"
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
Topps' Women of Star Wars
,
Card:
Corporal Timker
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Connections
"
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Admiral Raddus
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Bistan
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Cara Dune
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Darth Vader
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Dengar
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Fenn Rau
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
General Draven
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
General Merrick
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
General Veers
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Hondo Ohnaka
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Ketsu Onyo
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Lieutenant Endicott
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Princess Leia
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
R2-D2
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
RX-24
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Ryder Azadi
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Stormtrooper
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2020 Base Series 2
,
Card:
Tauntaun
"
Imperial Troops
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
R2-D2
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Star Wars Book
Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Admiral Ackbar
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base
,
Card:
Cara Dune
"Sanctuary" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
"The Prisoner" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: X-Wing Second Edition
—
TIE/rb Heavy Expansion Pack
Card:
"Rampage" — TIE/rb Heavy
(Picture only)
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
"
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
The Art of Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Season One
The Mandalorian: Allies & Enemies
"
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
Database
" —
Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin
100
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of Season Two
"
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#178: Darth Vader
)
(
backup link
)
"
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
C-3PO
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Grand Admiral Thrawn
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars A to Z
:
Sabine
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars
: Card Trader
Set:
2021 Base - Series 2
,
Card:
Jek Porkins
Star Wars A to Z
:
Lando
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars: Retro Collection
(Pack:
Cara Dune
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga
– The Official Collector's Edition
The Mandalorian: Magnetic Fun
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
: Guide to Season One
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
Inside Intel: The Death Star
on
StarWars.com
(
article
) (
backup link
)
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian
— "
Making of the Season 2 Finale
"
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#198: Luke Skywalker (Endor)
)
(
backup link
)
"
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection
(Pack:
#204: Antoc Merrick's X-Wing Fighter
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#01: Jyn Erso
)
(
backup link
)
(Indirect mention only)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#03: K-2SO
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
The Power of the Force
Figure:
Han Solo
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Handbook
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#02: Captain Cassian Andor
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Figure:
#06: Bodhi Rook
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars
: Best of 2021
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: The Black Series Archive
(Pack:
Princess Leia
)
(
backup link
)
"
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
General Equipment (2)
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
Star Wars: List It!
:
Faithful Friends
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: A New Hope
Figure:
#01: Princess Leia Organa (Yavin 4)
)
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Black Series
(
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
Figure:
Trapper Wolf
)
(
backup link
)
"
Pilots of the Rebel Alliance
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
"
Crime and Punishment
" —
Star Wars Insider
209
Diego Luna and Genevieve O'Reilly Take The Stage At SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Andor | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars Celebration LIVE! – DAY 1
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
SWCA 2022: 5 Highlights from the
Andor
Teaser Trailer
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022:
Andor
Teaser Trailer, Release Date Revealed
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the
Light & Magic
Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the
Star Wars: Hunters
Panel
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Star Wars
Comics – Exclusive Preview
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars Full Circle
:
Obi-Wan Kenobi
on the official
Star Wars
Kids
YouTube channel
(
original link
is obsolete)
Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Talk Family in
Star Wars: The Princess and the Scoundrel
– Exclusive Excerpt
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Star Wars
Comics – Exclusive Preview
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
As His 100th
Star Wars
Comic Hits Shelves, Charles Soule Looks Back
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: A Brewing Rebellion in the
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Limited Series
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
SDCC 2022:
Andor
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Marvel Star Wars #27, MothMadness, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Disney+ Day, Saw Gerrera 101, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Andor
Actor Genevieve O'Reilly on the Legacy of Mon Mothma
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
This Week! in Star Wars
Tales of the Jedi Poster Art, Mon Mothma Arrives in Andor, and More!
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars 100 Objects
Star Wars Outlaws™ Opens Up a Galaxy of Opportunity
on
Ubisoft
's
official website
(
June 11
,
2023
)
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Star Wars Outlaws
Revealed: Get the First Details on Ubisoft's Open-World
Star Wars
Game
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
219
"
Launchpad
" —
Star Wars Insider
220
(Mentioned only)
"
This is Obi-Wan
" —
Star Wars: Meet the Galactic Heroes
"
A Certain Point of View
" —
Star Wars Insider
223
Star Wars: Return of The Jedi
: The 40th Anniversary Special Edition
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
on the official
Ubisoft
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
Ensuing Instigations
on
Arena News
(
original site
is defunct)
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Game On: A Look at Sabacc and Dejarik
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
(Mentioned only)
Free Comic Book Day 2025:
Star Wars
1
Behind Unlimited: Lessons and Accomplishments of 2024
on
Star Wars
: Unlimited's
official website
(
backup link
)
7 Ways
Andor
Changes How We Watch
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
The Art of Star Wars: Outlaws
Star Wars
Year in Review 2025
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Celebrate the
Star Wars
Saga with a Festive Holiday Short on
Star Wars
Kids
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
Star Wars: The Mandalorian Visual Guide
2-1B Droid
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
(Picture only)
A-wing Fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
A280 Blaster Rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
A300 blaster rifle
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Ackbar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Ozzel
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Piett
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Admiral Raddus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Aeosians
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Aftab Ackbar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
(Indirect mention only)
Ahsoka Tano
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ajan Kloss
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ajan Kloss Resistance Base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alderaan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alderaan Cruiser
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alexsandr Kallus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Alliance High Command
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Anakin Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Asteroid Belt Gas Refinery
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-AT Pilots
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
AT-DP Walker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Atollon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
B-wing Fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bail Organa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Base One
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bespin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Biggs Darklighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bistan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Bright Tree Village
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
C-3PO (See-Threepio)
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
C2-B5
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Caluan Ematt
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cara Dune
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Chewbacca
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cleat
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Cloud City
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Crait Rebel base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
D'Qar
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dak Ralter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dantooine
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Darth Vader
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Death Star II
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Derek "Hobbie" Klivian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Dyro Felldor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Echo Base
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Emperor Palpatine/Darth Sidious
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Erskin Semaj
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Ewok
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Executor
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galactic Empire
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galactic Senate
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Galen Erso
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Pitt Onoran
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Rieekan
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
General Tagge
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Givin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
GR-75 Medium Transport
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Hammerhead Corvette
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Han Solo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Home One
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Hoth
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Death Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Imperial Star Destroyer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Jarek Yeager
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lando Calrissian
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lieutenant Dicer
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Lindon Javes
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Luke Skywalker
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Medal of Yavin
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Millennium Falcon
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mon Calamari
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mon Calamari star cruiser
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Mon Mothma
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Moroff
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Obi-Wan Kenobi
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Princess Leia Organa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Proton Torpedo
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Queen Breha Organa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
R2-D2
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel Alliance
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel insignia ring
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel Pilots
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebel Troopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Rebellion Outpost on Aeos
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Resistance Pilots
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Sana Starros
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Snowspeeder
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Stormtroopers
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
T-85 X-wing
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The Force
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The New Republic
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
The
Raddus
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
TIE fighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Venisa Doza
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wampa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wedge Antilles
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wes Janson
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wicket W. Warrick
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Wobani
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
X-wing Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Y-wing Starfighter
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yavin 4
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Yoda
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
Non-canon sources
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
Notes and references
↑
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
↑
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Secret Cargo
"
↑
3.0
3.1
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
↑
"
Epilogue
" —
Empire Ascendant
1
↑
5.0
5.1
Star Wars
(2015) 4
↑
6.00
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10
6.11
6.12
6.13
6.14
6.15
6.16
6.17
Star Wars: The Rebel Files
↑
7.0
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
↑
8.0
8.1
8.2
Lost Stars
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 44
↑
10.0
10.1
10.2
10.3
10.4
10.5
Star Wars
: Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back
↑
11.0
11.1
11.2
11.3
11.4
11.5
11.6
Rebel Alliance
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
12.0
12.1
12.2
Dawn of Rebellion
↑
13.0
13.1
13.2
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Messenger
"
↑
14.0
14.1
14.2
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
↑
"
The Heroes of Rogue One
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
establishes that the Rebel Alliance was formed by rebel cells that were coordinating and established a political and military hierarchy five
years
before the
Battle of Yavin
, which corresponds to
5 BBY
per
Star Wars: Timelines
. Therefore, this established network must have been formed in 5
BBY
.
↑
16.0
16.1
16.2
16.3
Star Wars: Timelines
↑
17.0
17.1
17.2
17.3
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas
↑
18.0
18.1
18.2
18.3
Aftermath
↑
19.0
19.1
Star Wars: The Clone Wars
— "
A War on Two Fronts
"
↑
Star Wars
: Episode II
Attack of the Clones
↑
21.0
21.1
Star Wars
: Episode III
Revenge of the Sith
↑
22.0
22.1
Bail Organa
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Mon Mothma
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Meena Tills
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
25.0
25.1
A New Dawn
↑
26.0
26.1
26.2
26.3
26.4
Tarkin
↑
27.0
27.1
27.2
27.3
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Infiltration
"
↑
Darth Vader
(2017) 13
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Nobody's Listening!
"
↑
Rogue One Adaptation
1
↑
31.0
31.1
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
↑
Star Wars: Edge of the Abyss
on
Penguin Books'
official United Kingdom website
(
backup link
)
establishes the events of
Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear
take place thirteen
years
before the events of
Reign of the Empire: Edge of the Abyss
.
Rebecca Roanhorse
(
@rebeccaroanhorse
) on
Instagram
(
post
):
"Title and updated release date of my upcoming STAR WARS novel announced at SDCC. THE EDGE OF THE ABYSS takes place a year before Andor S1."
(
backup link
)
states that
Edge of the Abyss
takes place a year before the events of
Andor
Season 1
, which are set in
5 BBY
per the reasoning
here
. Therefore, the events of
Edge of the Abyss
must be set in
6 BBY
, and the events of
The Mask of Fear
in
19 BBY
.
↑
Lords of the Sith
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
The Solitary Clone
"
↑
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
— "
Common Ground
"
↑
"
Truth and Consequences
" features the official formation of the
Stormtrooper Corps
, which
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
dates to
18 BBY
. Since "
Infiltration
" takes place after "Truth and Consequences," it must occur during or after 18
BBY
.
↑
37.0
37.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Rix Road
"
↑
38.0
38.1
38.2
38.3
38.4
38.5
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Fire Across the Galaxy
"
↑
39.0
39.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Announcement
"
↑
40.0
40.1
40.2
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Aldhani
"
↑
Star Wars: On the Front Lines
↑
Star Wars: The Mask of Fear (Reign of the Empire)
on
Penguin Random House's
official website
(
backup link
)
↑
Andor
Explained: Episodes 10-12 - "Make It Stop", "Who Else Knows?", and "Jedha, Kyber, Erso"
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Who Else Knows?
"
↑
45.0
45.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Nobody's Listening!
"
↑
46.0
46.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Announcement
"
↑
47.0
47.1
47.2
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Daughter of Ferrix
"
↑
48.0
48.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
One Way Out
"
↑
Andor
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 9, "Nobody's Listening!"
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
50.0
50.1
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Narkina 5
"
↑
51.0
51.1
51.2
Star Wars Rebels
— "
In the Name of the Rebellion
"
↑
Rebels Recon
#1.14: Inside "Fire Across the Galaxy" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Call to Action
"
↑
55.0
55.1
Leia, Princess of Alderaan
↑
56.0
56.1
Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Relics of the Old Republic
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Wings of the Master
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Stealth Strike
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Future of the Force
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Legacy
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
A Princess on Lothal
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Protector of Concord Dawn
"
↑
64.0
64.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Homecoming
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Forgotten Droid
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Mystery of Chopper Base
"
↑
"
Make It Stop
" dates itself to
1 BBY
.
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Welcome to the Rebellion
"
↑
69.0
69.1
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
37
Guide to the Galaxy: Visiting Dantooine
↑
Dantooine
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
Thrawn
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Steps Into Shadow
↑
73.0
73.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Antilles Extraction
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Honorable Ones
"
↑
Rebels Recon
#3.03: Inside "The Antilles Extraction" | Star Wars Rebels
on the official
Star Wars
YouTube channel
(
backup link
)
(
Posted on StarWars.com
)
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Imperial Supercommandos
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Iron Squadron
"
↑
78.0
78.1
Star Wars Rebels
— "
An Inside Man
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Ghosts of Geonosis
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Warhead
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Through Imperial Eyes
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Welcome to the Rebellion
"
↑
83.0
83.1
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
novelization
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Double Agent Droid
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Twin Suns
"
↑
86.0
86.1
86.2
Bloodline
↑
"
The Heroes of Rogue One
" —
Star Wars Encyclopedia
↑
Fully Operational
↑
89.0
89.1
89.2
89.3
89.4
89.5
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Zero Hour
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels: Heroes of Mandalore
↑
91.0
91.1
91.2
Princess Leia
1
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Occupation
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Rebel Assault
"
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Jedi Knight
"
↑
Star Wars: Andor
— "
Jedha, Kyber, Erso
"
↑
"
Heroes of the Rebellion
" —
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
↑
Darth Vader
in the
Databank
(
backup link
)
↑
98.0
98.1
98.2
Heir to the Jedi
↑
"
The Angle
" —
From a Certain Point of View
↑
Star Wars
(2015) 55
↑
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon
34
Secrets of Spaceflight: Refuelling
↑
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
↑
103.00
103.01
103.02
103.03
103.04
103.05
103.06
103.07
103.08
103.09
103.10
103.11
103.12
103.13
Battlefront: Twilight Company
↑
104.0
104.1
104.2
Star Wars
(2015) 1
↑
105.0
105.1
105.2
105.3
Star Wars
(2015) 4
↑
106.0
106.1
Star Wars
(2015) 3
↑
107.0
107.1
Star Wars: Vader Down
↑
Crimson Reign
2
↑
Star Wars Outlaws
↑
110.0
110.1
110.2
110.3
110.4
110.5
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
↑
Star Wars
(2020) 26
↑
Star Wars
(2020) 28
↑
Star Wars Battlefront II
↑
114.0
114.1
114.2
114.3
114.4
114.5
Star Wars
: Episode VI
Return of the Jedi
↑
115.0
115.1
115.2
Shattered Empire
1
↑
Star Wars Battlefront
: Battle of Jakku DLC
↑
Star Wars: The Mandalorian
— "
Chapter 4: Sanctuary
"
↑
Star Wars
: Episode VII
The Force Awakens
↑
Star Wars: Timelines
dates the events of
Bloodline
to
28 ABY
↑
Hidden Empire
2
↑
121.0
121.1
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
Out of Darkness
"
↑
Star Wars Helmet Collection
: Rebel Commando
Helmets: Rebel Commando
↑
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
↑
Star Wars: Squadrons
↑
Star Wars
: Episode IV
A New Hope
↑
Star Wars Battlefront II
↑
Star Wars Rebels
— "
The Antilles Extraction
"
↑
129.0
129.1
Clone Wars Download
:
Sowing the Seeds of Rebellion
on
StarWars.com
(
backup link
)
↑
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
External links
Rebel Alliance
on
Wikipedia
In other languages
čeština
Deutsch
Ελληνικά
español
français
한국어
italiano
ქართული
magyar
日本語
polski
português
suomi
svenska
Türkçe
українська
Related categories:
Alliance to Restore the Republic
Related Categories:
Alliance to Restore the Republic